As I never assisted at any other representation of George Barnwell, I
don’t know how long it may usually take; but I know very well that it
took until half-past nine o’ clock that night, and that when Mr. Wopsle
got into Newgate, I thought he never would go to the scaffold, he
became so much slower than at any former period of his disgraceful
career. I thought it a little too much that he should complain of being
cut short in his flower after all, as if he had not been running to
seed, leaf after leaf, ever since his course began. This, however, was
a mere question of length and wearisomeness. What stung me, was the
identification of the whole affair with my unoffending self. When
Barnwell began to go wrong, I declare that I felt positively
apologetic, Pumblechook’s indignant stare so taxed me with it. Wopsle,
too, took pains to present me in the worst light. At once ferocious and
maudlin, I was made to murder my uncle with no extenuating
circumstances whatever; Millwood put me down in argument, on every
occasion; it became sheer monomania in my master’s daughter to care a
button for me; and all I can say for my gasping and procrastinating
conduct on the fatal morning, is, that it was worthy of the general
feebleness of my character. Even after I was happily hanged and Wopsle
had closed the book, Pumblechook sat staring at me, and shaking his
head, and saying, “Take warning, boy, take warning!” as if it were a
well-known fact that I contemplated murdering a near relation, provided
I could only induce one to have the weakness to become my benefactor.

It was a very dark night when it was all over, and when I set out with
Mr. Wopsle on the walk home. Beyond town, we found a heavy mist out,
and it fell wet and thick. The turnpike lamp was a blur, quite out of
the lamp’s usual place apparently, and its rays looked solid substance
on the fog. We were noticing this, and saying how that the mist rose
with a change of wind from a certain quarter of our marshes, when we
came upon a man, slouching under the lee of the turnpike house.

