“From information I have received,” said he, looking round at us as we
all quailed before him, “I have reason to believe there is a blacksmith
among you, by name Joseph—or Joe—Gargery. Which is the man?”

“Here is the man,” said Joe.

The strange gentleman beckoned him out of his place, and Joe went.

“You have an apprentice,” pursued the stranger, “commonly known as Pip?
Is he here?”

“I am here!” I cried.

The stranger did not recognise me, but I recognised him as the
gentleman I had met on the stairs, on the occasion of my second visit
to Miss Havisham. I had known him the moment I saw him looking over the
settle, and now that I stood confronting him with his hand upon my
shoulder, I checked off again in detail his large head, his dark
complexion, his deep-set eyes, his bushy black eyebrows, his large
watch-chain, his strong black dots of beard and whisker, and even the
smell of scented soap on his great hand.

“I wish to have a private conference with you two,” said he, when he
had surveyed me at his leisure. “It will take a little time. Perhaps we
had better go to your place of residence. I prefer not to anticipate my
communication here; you will impart as much or as little of it as you
please to your friends afterwards; I have nothing to do with that.”

Amidst a wondering silence, we three walked out of the Jolly Bargemen,
and in a wondering silence walked home. While going along, the strange
gentleman occasionally looked at me, and occasionally bit the side of
his finger. As we neared home, Joe vaguely acknowledging the occasion
as an impressive and ceremonious one, went on ahead to open the front
door. Our conference was held in the state parlour, which was feebly
lighted by one candle.

It began with the strange gentleman’s sitting down at the table,
drawing the candle to him, and looking over some entries in his
pocket-book. He then put up the pocket-book and set the candle a little
aside, after peering round it into the darkness at Joe and me, to
ascertain which was which.

