My dream was out; my wild fancy was surpassed by sober reality; Miss
Havisham was going to make my fortune on a grand scale.

“Now, Mr. Pip,” pursued the lawyer, “I address the rest of what I have
to say, to you. You are to understand, first, that it is the request of
the person from whom I take my instructions that you always bear the
name of Pip. You will have no objection, I dare say, to your great
expectations being encumbered with that easy condition. But if you have
any objection, this is the time to mention it.”

My heart was beating so fast, and there was such a singing in my ears,
that I could scarcely stammer I had no objection.

“I should think not! Now you are to understand, secondly, Mr. Pip, that
the name of the person who is your liberal benefactor remains a
profound secret, until the person chooses to reveal it. I am empowered
to mention that it is the intention of the person to reveal it at first
hand by word of mouth to yourself. When or where that intention may be
carried out, I cannot say; no one can say. It may be years hence. Now,
you are distinctly to understand that you are most positively
prohibited from making any inquiry on this head, or any allusion or
reference, however distant, to any individual whomsoever as _the_
individual, in all the communications you may have with me. If you have
a suspicion in your own breast, keep that suspicion in your own breast.
It is not the least to the purpose what the reasons of this prohibition
are; they may be the strongest and gravest reasons, or they may be mere
whim. This is not for you to inquire into. The condition is laid down.
Your acceptance of it, and your observance of it as binding, is the
only remaining condition that I am charged with, by the person from
whom I take my instructions, and for whom I am not otherwise
responsible. That person is the person from whom you derive your
expectations, and the secret is solely held by that person and by me.
Again, not a very difficult condition with which to encumber such a
rise in fortune; but if you have any objection to it, this is the time
to mention it. Speak out.”

