We had made some progress in the dinner, when I reminded Herbert of his
promise to tell me about Miss Havisham.

“True,” he replied. “I’ll redeem it at once. Let me introduce the
topic, Handel, by mentioning that in London it is not the custom to put
the knife in the mouth,—for fear of accidents,—and that while the fork
is reserved for that use, it is not put further in than necessary. It
is scarcely worth mentioning, only it’s as well to do as other people
do. Also, the spoon is not generally used over-hand, but under. This
has two advantages. You get at your mouth better (which after all is
the object), and you save a good deal of the attitude of opening
oysters, on the part of the right elbow.”

He offered these friendly suggestions in such a lively way, that we
both laughed and I scarcely blushed.

“Now,” he pursued, “concerning Miss Havisham. Miss Havisham, you must
know, was a spoilt child. Her mother died when she was a baby, and her
father denied her nothing. Her father was a country gentleman down in
your part of the world, and was a brewer. I don’t know why it should be
a crack thing to be a brewer; but it is indisputable that while you
cannot possibly be genteel and bake, you may be as genteel as never was
and brew. You see it every day.”

“Yet a gentleman may not keep a public-house; may he?” said I.

“Not on any account,” returned Herbert; “but a public-house may keep a
gentleman. Well! Mr. Havisham was very rich and very proud. So was his
daughter.”

“Miss Havisham was an only child?” I hazarded.

“Stop a moment, I am coming to that. No, she was not an only child; she
had a half-brother. Her father privately married again—his cook, I
rather think.”

“I thought he was proud,” said I.

“My good Handel, so he was. He married his second wife privately,
because he was proud, and in course of time _she_ died. When she was
dead, I apprehend he first told his daughter what he had done, and then
the son became a part of the family, residing in the house you are
acquainted with. As the son grew a young man, he turned out riotous,
extravagant, undutiful,—altogether bad. At last his father disinherited
him; but he softened when he was dying, and left him well off, though
not nearly so well off as Miss Havisham.—Take another glass of wine,
and excuse my mentioning that society as a body does not expect one to
be so strictly conscientious in emptying one’s glass, as to turn it
bottom upwards with the rim on one’s nose.”

