“They fell into deeper shame and degradation—if there can be deeper—and
ruin.”

“Are they alive now?”

“I don’t know.”

“You said just now that Estella was not related to Miss Havisham, but
adopted. When adopted?”

Herbert shrugged his shoulders. “There has always been an Estella,
since I have heard of a Miss Havisham. I know no more. And now,
Handel,” said he, finally throwing off the story as it were, “there is
a perfectly open understanding between us. All that I know about Miss
Havisham, you know.”

“And all that I know,” I retorted, “you know.”

“I fully believe it. So there can be no competition or perplexity
between you and me. And as to the condition on which you hold your
advancement in life,—namely, that you are not to inquire or discuss to
whom you owe it,—you may be very sure that it will never be encroached
upon, or even approached, by me, or by any one belonging to me.”

In truth, he said this with so much delicacy, that I felt the subject
done with, even though I should be under his father’s roof for years
and years to come. Yet he said it with so much meaning, too, that I
felt he as perfectly understood Miss Havisham to be my benefactress, as
I understood the fact myself.

It had not occurred to me before, that he had led up to the theme for
the purpose of clearing it out of our way; but we were so much the
lighter and easier for having broached it, that I now perceived this to
be the case. We were very gay and sociable, and I asked him, in the
course of conversation, what he was? He replied, “A capitalist,—an
Insurer of Ships.” I suppose he saw me glancing about the room in
search of some tokens of Shipping, or capital, for he added, “In the
City.”

I had grand ideas of the wealth and importance of Insurers of Ships in
the City, and I began to think with awe of having laid a young Insurer
on his back, blackened his enterprising eye, and cut his responsible
head open. But again there came upon me, for my relief, that odd
impression that Herbert Pocket would never be very successful or rich.

