“—That it _is_ hard,” said Mrs. Coiler, “to have dear Mr. Pocket’s time
and attention diverted from dear Mrs. Pocket.”

I could not help thinking that it might be harder if the butcher’s time
and attention were diverted from dear Mrs. Pocket; but I said nothing,
and indeed had enough to do in keeping a bashful watch upon my company
manners.

It came to my knowledge, through what passed between Mrs. Pocket and
Drummle while I was attentive to my knife and fork, spoon, glasses, and
other instruments of self-destruction, that Drummle, whose Christian
name was Bentley, was actually the next heir but one to a baronetcy. It
further appeared that the book I had seen Mrs. Pocket reading in the
garden was all about titles, and that she knew the exact date at which
her grandpapa would have come into the book, if he ever had come at
all. Drummle didn’t say much, but in his limited way (he struck me as a
sulky kind of fellow) he spoke as one of the elect, and recognised Mrs.
Pocket as a woman and a sister. No one but themselves and Mrs. Coiler
the toady neighbour showed any interest in this part of the
conversation, and it appeared to me that it was painful to Herbert; but
it promised to last a long time, when the page came in with the
announcement of a domestic affliction. It was, in effect, that the cook
had mislaid the beef. To my unutterable amazement, I now, for the first
time, saw Mr. Pocket relieve his mind by going through a performance
that struck me as very extraordinary, but which made no impression on
anybody else, and with which I soon became as familiar as the rest. He
laid down the carving-knife and fork,—being engaged in carving, at the
moment,—put his two hands into his disturbed hair, and appeared to make
an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it. When he had done
this, and had not lifted himself up at all, he quietly went on with
what he was about.

Mrs. Coiler then changed the subject and began to flatter me. I liked
it for a few moments, but she flattered me so very grossly that the
pleasure was soon over. She had a serpentine way of coming close at me
when she pretended to be vitally interested in the friends and
localities I had left, which was altogether snaky and fork-tongued; and
when she made an occasional bounce upon Startop (who said very little
to her), or upon Drummle (who said less), I rather envied them for
being on the opposite side of the table.

