He advised my attending certain places in London, for the acquisition
of such mere rudiments as I wanted, and my investing him with the
functions of explainer and director of all my studies. He hoped that
with intelligent assistance I should meet with little to discourage me,
and should soon be able to dispense with any aid but his. Through his
way of saying this, and much more to similar purpose, he placed himself
on confidential terms with me in an admirable manner; and I may state
at once that he was always so zealous and honourable in fulfilling his
compact with me, that he made me zealous and honourable in fulfilling
mine with him. If he had shown indifference as a master, I have no
doubt I should have returned the compliment as a pupil; he gave me no
such excuse, and each of us did the other justice. Nor did I ever
regard him as having anything ludicrous about him—or anything but what
was serious, honest, and good—in his tutor communication with me.

When these points were settled, and so far carried out as that I had
begun to work in earnest, it occurred to me that if I could retain my
bedroom in Barnard’s Inn, my life would be agreeably varied, while my
manners would be none the worse for Herbert’s society. Mr. Pocket did
not object to this arrangement, but urged that before any step could
possibly be taken in it, it must be submitted to my guardian. I felt
that this delicacy arose out of the consideration that the plan would
save Herbert some expense, so I went off to Little Britain and imparted
my wish to Mr. Jaggers.

“If I could buy the furniture now hired for me,” said I, “and one or
two other little things, I should be quite at home there.”

“Go it!” said Mr. Jaggers, with a short laugh. “I told you you’d get
on. Well! How much do you want?”

I said I didn’t know how much.

“Come!” retorted Mr. Jaggers. “How much? Fifty pounds?”

“O, not nearly so much.”

“Five pounds?” said Mr. Jaggers.

This was such a great fall, that I said in discomfiture, “O, more than
that.”

