“When did you come to town, Mr. Gargery?”

“Were it yesterday afternoon?” said Joe, after coughing behind his
hand, as if he had had time to catch the whooping-cough since he came.
“No it were not. Yes it were. Yes. It were yesterday afternoon” (with
an appearance of mingled wisdom, relief, and strict impartiality).

“Have you seen anything of London yet?”

“Why, yes, Sir,” said Joe, “me and Wopsle went off straight to look at
the Blacking Ware’us. But we didn’t find that it come up to its
likeness in the red bills at the shop doors; which I meantersay,” added
Joe, in an explanatory manner, “as it is there drawd too
architectooralooral.”

I really believe Joe would have prolonged this word (mightily
expressive to my mind of some architecture that I know) into a perfect
Chorus, but for his attention being providentially attracted by his
hat, which was toppling. Indeed, it demanded from him a constant
attention, and a quickness of eye and hand, very like that exacted by
wicket-keeping. He made extraordinary play with it, and showed the
greatest skill; now, rushing at it and catching it neatly as it
dropped; now, merely stopping it midway, beating it up, and humouring
it in various parts of the room and against a good deal of the pattern
of the paper on the wall, before he felt it safe to close with it;
finally splashing it into the slop-basin, where I took the liberty of
laying hands upon it.

[Illustration]

As to his shirt-collar, and his coat-collar, they were perplexing to
reflect upon,—insoluble mysteries both. Why should a man scrape himself
to that extent, before he could consider himself full dressed? Why
should he suppose it necessary to be purified by suffering for his
holiday clothes? Then he fell into such unaccountable fits of
meditation, with his fork midway between his plate and his mouth; had
his eyes attracted in such strange directions; was afflicted with such
remarkable coughs; sat so far from the table, and dropped so much more
than he ate, and pretended that he hadn’t dropped it; that I was
heartily glad when Herbert left us for the City.

