It was easy to make sure that as yet he knew me no more than if he had
never seen me in his life. He looked across at me, and his eye
appraised my watch-chain, and then he incidentally spat and said
something to the other convict, and they laughed and slued themselves
round with a clink of their coupling manacle, and looked at something
else. The great numbers on their backs, as if they were street doors;
their coarse mangy ungainly outer surface, as if they were lower
animals; their ironed legs, apologetically garlanded with
pocket-handkerchiefs; and the way in which all present looked at them
and kept from them; made them (as Herbert had said) a most disagreeable
and degraded spectacle.

But this was not the worst of it. It came out that the whole of the
back of the coach had been taken by a family removing from London, and
that there were no places for the two prisoners but on the seat in
front behind the coachman. Hereupon, a choleric gentleman, who had
taken the fourth place on that seat, flew into a most violent passion,
and said that it was a breach of contract to mix him up with such
villainous company, and that it was poisonous, and pernicious, and
infamous, and shameful, and I don’t know what else. At this time the
coach was ready and the coachman impatient, and we were all preparing
to get up, and the prisoners had come over with their keeper,—bringing
with them that curious flavour of bread-poultice, baize, rope-yarn, and
hearthstone, which attends the convict presence.

“Don’t take it so much amiss, sir,” pleaded the keeper to the angry
passenger; “I’ll sit next you myself. I’ll put ’em on the outside of
the row. They won’t interfere with you, sir. You needn’t know they’re
there.”

“And don’t blame _me_,” growled the convict I had recognised. “_I_
don’t want to go. _I_ am quite ready to stay behind. As fur as I am
concerned any one’s welcome to _my_ place.”

“Or mine,” said the other, gruffly. “_I_ wouldn’t have incommoded none
of you, if I’d had _my_ way.” Then they both laughed, and began
cracking nuts, and spitting the shells about.—As I really think I
should have liked to do myself, if I had been in their place and so
despised.

