“Then you are?” said I.

“I am,” said Herbert; “but it’s a secret.”

I assured him of my keeping the secret, and begged to be favoured with
further particulars. He had spoken so sensibly and feelingly of my
weakness that I wanted to know something about his strength.

“May I ask the name?” I said.

“Name of Clara,” said Herbert.

“Live in London?”

“Yes, perhaps I ought to mention,” said Herbert, who had become
curiously crestfallen and meek, since we entered on the interesting
theme, “that she is rather below my mother’s nonsensical family
notions. Her father had to do with the victualling of passenger-ships.
I think he was a species of purser.”

“What is he now?” said I.

“He’s an invalid now,” replied Herbert.

“Living on—?”

“On the first floor,” said Herbert. Which was not at all what I meant,
for I had intended my question to apply to his means. “I have never
seen him, for he has always kept his room overhead, since I have known
Clara. But I have heard him constantly. He makes tremendous
rows,—roars, and pegs at the floor with some frightful instrument.” In
looking at me and then laughing heartily, Herbert for the time
recovered his usual lively manner.

“Don’t you expect to see him?” said I.

“O yes, I constantly expect to see him,” returned Herbert, “because I
never hear him, without expecting him to come tumbling through the
ceiling. But I don’t know how long the rafters may hold.”

When he had once more laughed heartily, he became meek again, and told
me that the moment he began to realise Capital, it was his intention to
marry this young lady. He added as a self-evident proposition,
engendering low spirits, “But you _can’t_ marry, you know, while you’re
looking about you.”

As we contemplated the fire, and as I thought what a difficult vision
to realise this same Capital sometimes was, I put my hands in my
pockets. A folded piece of paper in one of them attracting my
attention, I opened it and found it to be the play-bill I had received
from Joe, relative to the celebrated provincial amateur of Roscian
renown. “And bless my heart,” I involuntarily added aloud, “it’s
to-night!”

