This changed the subject in an instant, and made us hurriedly resolve
to go to the play. So, when I had pledged myself to comfort and abet
Herbert in the affair of his heart by all practicable and impracticable
means, and when Herbert had told me that his affianced already knew me
by reputation and that I should be presented to her, and when we had
warmly shaken hands upon our mutual confidence, we blew out our
candles, made up our fire, locked our door, and issued forth in quest
of Mr. Wopsle and Denmark.




Chapter XXXI.


On our arrival in Denmark, we found the king and queen of that country
elevated in two arm-chairs on a kitchen-table, holding a Court. The
whole of the Danish nobility were in attendance; consisting of a noble
boy in the wash-leather boots of a gigantic ancestor, a venerable Peer
with a dirty face who seemed to have risen from the people late in
life, and the Danish chivalry with a comb in its hair and a pair of
white silk legs, and presenting on the whole a feminine appearance. My
gifted townsman stood gloomily apart, with folded arms, and I could
have wished that his curls and forehead had been more probable.

Several curious little circumstances transpired as the action
proceeded. The late king of the country not only appeared to have been
troubled with a cough at the time of his decease, but to have taken it
with him to the tomb, and to have brought it back. The royal phantom
also carried a ghostly manuscript round its truncheon, to which it had
the appearance of occasionally referring, and that too, with an air of
anxiety and a tendency to lose the place of reference which were
suggestive of a state of mortality. It was this, I conceive, which led
to the Shade’s being advised by the gallery to “turn over!”—a
recommendation which it took extremely ill. It was likewise to be noted
of this majestic spirit, that whereas it always appeared with an air of
having been out a long time and walked an immense distance, it
perceptibly came from a closely contiguous wall. This occasioned its
terrors to be received derisively. The Queen of Denmark, a very buxom
lady, though no doubt historically brazen, was considered by the public
to have too much brass about her; her chin being attached to her diadem
by a broad band of that metal (as if she had a gorgeous toothache), her
waist being encircled by another, and each of her arms by another, so
that she was openly mentioned as “the kettle-drum.” The noble boy in
the ancestral boots was inconsistent, representing himself, as it were
in one breath, as an able seaman, a strolling actor, a grave-digger, a
clergyman, and a person of the utmost importance at a Court
fencing-match, on the authority of whose practised eye and nice
discrimination the finest strokes were judged. This gradually led to a
want of toleration for him, and even—on his being detected in holy
orders, and declining to perform the funeral service—to the general
indignation taking the form of nuts. Lastly, Ophelia was a prey to such
slow musical madness, that when, in course of time, she had taken off
her white muslin scarf, folded it up, and buried it, a sulky man who
had been long cooling his impatient nose against an iron bar in the
front row of the gallery, growled, “Now the baby’s put to bed let’s
have supper!” Which, to say the least of it, was out of keeping.

