Whether it was possible in a Christian country to get on without blood,
after this, was a question on which the Finches were divided. The
debate upon it grew so lively, indeed, that at least six more
honourable members told six more, during the discussion, that they
believed _they_ knew where _they_ were to be found. However, it was
decided at last (the Grove being a Court of Honour) that if Mr. Drummle
would bring never so slight a certificate from the lady, importing that
he had the honour of her acquaintance, Mr. Pip must express his regret,
as a gentleman and a Finch, for “having been betrayed into a warmth
which.” Next day was appointed for the production (lest our honour
should take cold from delay), and next day Drummle appeared with a
polite little avowal in Estella’s hand, that she had had the honour of
dancing with him several times. This left me no course but to regret
that I had been “betrayed into a warmth which,” and on the whole to
repudiate, as untenable, the idea that I was to be found anywhere.
Drummle and I then sat snorting at one another for an hour, while the
Grove engaged in indiscriminate contradiction, and finally the
promotion of good feeling was declared to have gone ahead at an amazing
rate.

I tell this lightly, but it was no light thing to me. For, I cannot
adequately express what pain it gave me to think that Estella should
show any favour to a contemptible, clumsy, sulky booby, so very far
below the average. To the present moment, I believe it to have been
referable to some pure fire of generosity and disinterestedness in my
love for her, that I could not endure the thought of her stooping to
that hound. No doubt I should have been miserable whomsoever she had
favoured; but a worthier object would have caused me a different kind
and degree of distress.

It was easy for me to find out, and I did soon find out, that Drummle
had begun to follow her closely, and that she allowed him to do it. A
little while, and he was always in pursuit of her, and he and I crossed
one another every day. He held on, in a dull persistent way, and
Estella held him on; now with encouragement, now with discouragement,
now almost flattering him, now openly despising him, now knowing him
very well, now scarcely remembering who he was.

