“Not to go into the things that Compeyson planned, and I done—which ’ud
take a week—I’ll simply say to you, dear boy, and Pip’s comrade, that
that man got me into such nets as made me his black slave. I was always
in debt to him, always under his thumb, always a working, always a
getting into danger. He was younger than me, but he’d got craft, and
he’d got learning, and he overmatched me five hundred times told and no
mercy. My Missis as I had the hard time wi’—Stop though! I ain’t
brought _her_ in—”

He looked about him in a confused way, as if he had lost his place in
the book of his remembrance; and he turned his face to the fire, and
spread his hands broader on his knees, and lifted them off and put them
on again.

“There ain’t no need to go into it,” he said, looking round once more.
“The time wi’ Compeyson was a’most as hard a time as ever I had; that
said, all’s said. Did I tell you as I was tried, alone, for
misdemeanor, while with Compeyson?”

I answered, No.

“Well!” he said, “I _was_, and got convicted. As to took up on
suspicion, that was twice or three times in the four or five year that
it lasted; but evidence was wanting. At last, me and Compeyson was both
committed for felony,—on a charge of putting stolen notes in
circulation,—and there was other charges behind. Compeyson says to me,
‘Separate defences, no communication,’ and that was all. And I was so
miserable poor, that I sold all the clothes I had, except what hung on
my back, afore I could get Jaggers.

“When we was put in the dock, I noticed first of all what a gentleman
Compeyson looked, wi’ his curly hair and his black clothes and his
white pocket-handkercher, and what a common sort of a wretch I looked.
When the prosecution opened and the evidence was put short, aforehand,
I noticed how heavy it all bore on me, and how light on him. When the
evidence was giv in the box, I noticed how it was always me that had
come for’ard, and could be swore to, how it was always me that the
money had been paid to, how it was always me that had seemed to work
the thing and get the profit. But when the defence come on, then I see
the plan plainer; for, says the counsellor for Compeyson, ‘My lord and
gentlemen, here you has afore you, side by side, two persons as your
eyes can separate wide; one, the younger, well brought up, who will be
spoke to as such; one, the elder, ill brought up, who will be spoke to
as such; one, the younger, seldom if ever seen in these here
transactions, and only suspected; t’other, the elder, always seen in
’em and always wi’ his guilt brought home. Can you doubt, if there is
but one in it, which is the one, and, if there is two in it, which is
much the worst one?’ And such-like. And when it come to character,
warn’t it Compeyson as had been to the school, and warn’t it his
schoolfellows as was in this position and in that, and warn’t it him as
had been know’d by witnesses in such clubs and societies, and nowt to
his disadvantage? And warn’t it me as had been tried afore, and as had
been know’d up hill and down dale in Bridewells and Lock-Ups! And when
it come to speech-making, warn’t it Compeyson as could speak to ’em wi’
his face dropping every now and then into his white
pocket-handkercher,—ah! and wi’ verses in his speech, too,—and warn’t
it me as could only say, ‘Gentlemen, this man at my side is a most
precious rascal’? And when the verdict come, warn’t it Compeyson as was
recommended to mercy on account of good character and bad company, and
giving up all the information he could agen me, and warn’t it me as got
never a word but Guilty? And when I says to Compeyson, ‘Once out of
this court, I’ll smash that face of yourn!’ ain’t it Compeyson as prays
the Judge to be protected, and gets two turnkeys stood betwixt us? And
when we’re sentenced, ain’t it him as gets seven year, and me fourteen,
and ain’t it him as the Judge is sorry for, because he might a done so
well, and ain’t it me as the Judge perceives to be a old offender of
wiolent passion, likely to come to worse?”

