The schoolhouse where Biddy was mistress I had never seen; but, the
little roundabout lane by which I entered the village, for quietness’
sake, took me past it. I was disappointed to find that the day was a
holiday; no children were there, and Biddy’s house was closed. Some
hopeful notion of seeing her, busily engaged in her daily duties,
before she saw me, had been in my mind and was defeated.

But the forge was a very short distance off, and I went towards it
under the sweet green limes, listening for the clink of Joe’s hammer.
Long after I ought to have heard it, and long after I had fancied I
heard it and found it but a fancy, all was still. The limes were there,
and the white thorns were there, and the chestnut-trees were there, and
their leaves rustled harmoniously when I stopped to listen; but, the
clink of Joe’s hammer was not in the midsummer wind.

Almost fearing, without knowing why, to come in view of the forge, I
saw it at last, and saw that it was closed. No gleam of fire, no
glittering shower of sparks, no roar of bellows; all shut up, and
still.

But the house was not deserted, and the best parlour seemed to be in
use, for there were white curtains fluttering in its window, and the
window was open and gay with flowers. I went softly towards it, meaning
to peep over the flowers, when Joe and Biddy stood before me, arm in
arm.

At first Biddy gave a cry, as if she thought it was my apparition, but
in another moment she was in my embrace. I wept to see her, and she
wept to see me; I, because she looked so fresh and pleasant; she,
because I looked so worn and white.

“But dear Biddy, how smart you are!”

“Yes, dear Pip.”

“And Joe, how smart _you_ are!”

“Yes, dear old Pip, old chap.”

I looked at both of them, from one to the other, and then—

“It’s my wedding-day!” cried Biddy, in a burst of happiness, “and I am
married to Joe!”

They had taken me into the kitchen, and I had laid my head down on the
old deal table. Biddy held one of my hands to her lips, and Joe’s
restoring touch was on my shoulder. “Which he warn’t strong enough, my
dear, fur to be surprised,” said Joe. And Biddy said, “I ought to have
thought of it, dear Joe, but I was too happy.” They were both so
overjoyed to see me, so proud to see me, so touched by my coming to
them, so delighted that I should have come by accident to make their
day complete!

