Antiquities, except when sold, do not bring money to the exchequer, and
the Dutch Government’s most holy colonial traditions are diametrically
opposed to expenses without promise of immediate pecuniary profit. If
sympathies in matters alien to that prime purpose are miraculously
aroused, such interest, revealing itself at the very best by fits and
starts to serve ambitious schemes, soon flags and dies. Especially in
Dutch East Indian enthusiasm for enterprises financially uncommendable,
the adage holds good that _tout lasse, tout casse, tout passe_. The
efforts of the Archaeological Commission can be traced only at the
respectful distance of at least a couple of years, the drowsy dignity
of red-tapeism putting as long a space as possible between the vulgar
gaze of the unofficially curious and the official accounts of things
accomplished, meetly compiled, arranged, amended, corrected, revised,
purged, padded and bolstered up by the editing experts of successively
the circumlocution offices at Batavia, Buitenzorg and the Hague. The
reports, published in this manner, whatever they represent as having
been done, lay no stress, of course, upon what has been left undone,
upon the architectural marvels unprovided for, still suffered to
crumble away, to be stripped and demolished, the valuable statuary
and ornaments to be carried off piecemeal by unscrupulous collectors,
the lower priced stones they left, sculptured or not, by the builders
of private dwellings and factories, of Government bridges, dams and
embankments.

The illustrations, inserted to explain, imperfect though it be,
the charm of the temple ruins I treated of, are reproductions of
photographs, taken for the Dutch East Indian Archaeological Service,
I obtained from Messrs. Charls and van Es at Weltevreden, by courtesy
of Dr. N. J. Krom, and of photographs taken for the Centrum Company
at Batavia, and by Mr. C. Nieuwenhuis and the late Cephas Sr. at
Jogjakarta. The work of restoration can be appreciated from the
photo-prints of the _chandi_ Pawon and, with respect to the _chandis_
Mendoot and Boro Budoor, from those facing pp. 215 and 280; they are
the numbers 24 and 40 on the list of the illustrations, and I owe
them to Major T. van Erp, also through the intermediary of Dr. Krom.
My indebtedness for the text so far as it does not rest on personal
observation and information obtained in the localities referred to, is
a very large one to many authors on many subjects separately specified
in the notes. Concerning the historical parts, I beg leave to state
that my readings on controversial points have been determined by a
careful sifting of the most acceptable theories advanced, at the risk of
critics of the stamp alluded to, proving my preferred records absolutely
inadmissible. If so, I having pulled the long bow _à l’instar_ of the
annalists and chroniclers of ancient Java, and consequently being shown
up for indicating the way in which things did not happen and could not
have happened, instead of sticking to the historical truth agreed upon
until one of the hall-marked omniscient makes a name for himself by
inducing the others to agree upon something else, my sin falls back on
the shoulders of the _savants_ prone to lead their admirers astray by
their occasional imitation of the eminent historian at whose inborn
disrespect for facts Professor Freeman used to poke fun. I am afraid
that the system of transliteration I adopted, will also meet with scant
recognition in the same quarter, but finding none that, strictly carried
through, adjusts itself equally well to the exigencies both of Javanese
and Malay names and expressions, I shall adhere to this one until taught
better.

