While predictions of the kind may be laughed at, the native belief in
them and the foundations on which that belief rests, are no laughable
matter by any means. Stories of mythical beings like Kiahi Satomo
and Niahi Satomi, transformed into pieces of ordnance connected with
the legendary lore of Trunajaya on one side and Moslim fanaticism
personified in the cannon of Karang Antu on the other, prove that the
native mind is still strongly imbued with pre-Muhammadan and even
pre-Hindu ideas and modes of thought. Its imagination is fed by the
fortunes (and misfortunes!) of an island which may be compared in the
heterogeneous factors of its culture with Sicily, where Greek colonists
built their temples in the high places of aboriginal idolatry; and
the Saracens constructed their qubbehs overtopping the churches and
cloisters into which the Christians had transformed the cellae and
colonnades consecrated to Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Aphrodite, Pallas
Athene, Artemis, the Dioscuri; and the Normans added their arched
doorways and massive masonry to perplex posterity entirely. In Java
the Hindu element, with a strong Buddhist admixture, predominates; it
prevails wholly in ancient architectural activity, not to speak of
Soondanese and Javanese folklore and literature, while later Christian
influence is negligible if not negative. Everywhere in the island we
find under the Muhammadan coating the old conceptions of life from
which the Loro Jonggrang group and the Boro Budoor sprang: scratch the
_orang slam_ and the Saiva or Buddhist will immediately appear. As the
Padang Highlands, which preserve the traditions of Menangkabau, still
ring with the fame of the Buddhist King Adityawarman, and scrupulously
Moslim Palembang still cherishes the memory of Buddhist San-bo-tsaï,
while South Sumatra clings to Hindu customs and habits for all its
submission to Islām, so Java reveres whatever has been handed down from
her pantheistic _tempo dahulu_ (time of yore), however attached to the
law of the Prophet. Sivaïsm and Buddhism were deeply rooted in the
island; if the political power of its old creeds was broken in 1767 with
the taking of Balambangan, Hinduïsm nevertheless lingering among the
Tenggerese and in Bali, their spirit goes on leavening the new doctrine
and we meet with their symbolism at every turn. Not to mention Central
Java, where especially in Surakarta and Jogjakarta their tenacious
sway strikes the most casual observer, the great staircase of the
Muhammadan sanctum at Giri is adorned with a huge _naga_, the worshipful
rain-cloud descending in the likeness of a serpent, despite the Qorānic
injunction to abstain from the representation of animate creation. The
pillars of reception-halls and audience-chambers in the houses of the
high and mighty, East and West, bear a remarkable resemblance to the
_linga_, witness, _e.g._, the _kedaton_[7] built by the Sooltan Sepooh
Martawijaya of Cheribon, a Moslim prince who ought to have evinced the
strongest repugnance to Siva’s prime attribute.

