After an era of dabbling by pseudo-Winckelmanns and Schliemanns,
spicing their pretences with mutual admiration, the Government decided
finally to appoint a permanent Archaeological Commission. Things,
indeed, had come to such a pass that there was danger in delay: the
island is becoming more and more accessible to globe-trotters of all
nationalities, not a few of whom publish their impressions, and if
erring authority wields a vigorous Press Law to silence criticism at
home, against foreign criticism it has no weapon of the kind, however
touchy it may be. So it began to move and the Archaeological Commission
(short for Commission for Archaeological Research in Java and Madura),
though without a single trained archaeologist among its members,
displayed at once a good deal of activity under its first President,
Dr. J. L. A. Brandes, exploring in East Java, restoring the _chandi_
Toompang, attending to the Mendoot and Boro Budoor in Central Java, in
order that, acting upon King Pururava’s injunction, at last understood
and accepted, after a fashion, by Batavia and the Hague, no monument
shall be lost which has been wrought in the right spirit. It can be
imagined that subordinate officials, eager to follow their superiors’
lead, now revel daily in numberless finds, reported not only from
districts, near and remote, in the star island, but from the exterior
possessions, from Soombawa, from Jambi in Sumatra, from Kutei in East,
from Sanggau and Sakadan in West Borneo, etc. etc. Like the encouraging
of native art applied to weaving, wood-carving, the manufacture of
pottery, of household utensils of copper and bronze, and so on, the
ferreting out of sculptural and architectural ties with the past is
quite the latest craze, a stepping-stone to preferment or at least a
means of ingratiation with those who set the pace. There would be no
harm in this if obsequious ambition did not burgeon here and there into
an excess of zeal which makes one tremble, pregnant as it proves to be
with dangers well defined by Ruskin: Of all destructive manias that of
restoration is the frightfullest and foolishest.

