Dr. Brandes, whose learning and good sense led the Archaeological
Commission in a track of sound activity, died, unfortunately, in
1905. Though the theft of antiquities has been discontinued on paper,
impudent souvenir hunting is still winked at by authorities fawning
on distinguished guests. Untitled and unofficial collectors will have
some trouble perhaps, at any rate incur a good deal more expense than
formerly, in filling their private art galleries, but for officials
of the type of Nicolaus Engelhard[11] no difficulties seem to exist
and even the Boro Budoor was very recently despoiled to please a
royal personage. So much for Java; as to the exterior possessions,
the Minahassa was plundered, even more recently, for the benefit of
foreign explorers of name and fame. Since the respective Government
edicts[12] multiplied, fixing responsibility at random, cases of
strange disappearance multiplied too, on the principle, it seems, of
making hay while the sun shines; the pen-driving departments, issuing
circulars on everything, for everything, against everything, about
everything, effect absolutely nothing unless their insistence be
taken, often rightly by him who reads between the lines, for a covert
invitation to do precisely the contrary, considering friendships, family
relations, party obligations, etc. etc., of powers and dominions.
The force of regulations and rescripts in the Dutch East Indies is
notoriously short-lived in the best of circumstances, and we have it on
the authority of Hans Sachs, _Je mehr Hürten, je übler Hut_. The very
scrupulous and wise, moreover, drag off whatever is loose or can be
detached, separating details of ornament, reliefs and statues from their
surroundings, which are indispensable to their proper understanding, to
hide and forget them in cellars and lofts of museums until, the stars
being favourable, accidentally rediscovered after years and years, and
ticketed and huddled together with other ticketed objects in long,
dreary rows of forbidding, bewildering aspect. That is, _if_ they are
rescued and classified and ticketed _tant bien que mal_: the colonial
section in the Museum of Antiquities at Leyden, a byword among the
lovers of Dutch East Indian architecture, shows clearly the obstruction
caused by hopeless negligence in the past and lack of backbone in
the present zeal, energy, ardour, nay, frenzy of investigation.
Everything in Dutch colonial affairs goes by fits and starts with long
blanks of indifference between. To give but one instance: the _Corpus
Inscriptionum Javanarum_, planned with flourish of trumpets in 1843,
still awaits the preliminaries of a beginning of execution. Concerning
the fever of restoration which has broken out, one feels inclined, in
support of Ruskin’s opinion quoted above, to sound the note of warning
engraved on the signet ring of Prosper Mérimée, Inspector of the
Historical Monuments of France almost a century ago: μέμνασ’ ἀπιστεῖν,
lest the last state become worse than the first, and excess of zeal
deface what time and the hand of man, even the Department of Public
Works itself, quarrying its material for bridges, dams, embankments
and the shapeless Government buildings of which it possesses the
monopoly, have left standing. Without, however, insisting on the
dark aspect of the situation, let us trust that a sense of shame, if
not of duty, will sustain the interest in the old monuments of Java
now in vogue, and may then the faddish, pompous display, turned into
channels of quiet, responsible, persistent endeavour, herald a brighter
day!

