Pangeran Tranggana had auxiliaries from Bantam among his troops and
this leads us back to West Java after our slight digression in favour
of Demak, the energetic central state which, at the time here spoken
of, ruled the roast in matters of conquest for the propagation of the
faith. The Bantamese, more than their converters, have conserved a
reputation for fanaticism and it is not yet a quarter of a century
since a certain Abool Karim of the district Tanara preached the
holy war, the brotherhood of the Naqshibendyah fanning the flame of
sedition he kindled. His _murids_ (disciples) Tubagoos Ismaïl, Marduki
and Wasid having spread the movement, a mob, led by a certain Haji
Iskak, massacred several Europeans at Chilegon (1888). But for the
Government’s bayonets, rather than a course of conciliation based on a
thorough knowledge of the agrarian causes at the bottom of the unrest
among the population, the whole of Bantam might have blazed up and
Cheribon might have followed. Seeing that they could not prevail, the
dissatisfied betook themselves again to prayer, there at the grave of
Hasan ad-Din, here at the grave of Sheik Noor ad-Din Ibrahim, situated
not far from the capital he founded, on a hill near the sea, the
Gunoong Jati, whence his title. The terraces of the _astana_ so called,
first home of the Islām in this region, much venerated however much
defaced, savour of more ancient heathen monuments in all their odour
of Muhammadan sacredness, not otherwise than the _Kitab Papakam_,
the Cheribon code of laws, savours of Indian maxims and even at this
date betrays its birth from the legislation introduced by the Hindu
immigrants, though in 1768 (and not before that year, more than three
centuries after the introduction of the law of the Prophet!), the
_Kutara Manawa_ has officially been abrogated in the Sooltanate. The
lowest three terraces of the _astana_ serve as a burial-ground for the
descendants of Sunan Gunoong Jati and the men of mark in the annals of
his empire; a road, winding upward, a Moslim Via delle Tombe, conducts
the pilgrim to a _mesdjid_ on the fourth, not to be desecrated by the
feet of unbelievers;[19] above the _mesdjid_, on the fifth, the _sanctum
sanctorum_, rest the mortal remains of the saint himself. Speaking of
Cheribon in its relations to Hinduïsm and the Islām, a reference to
Chinese influences on Javanese architecture cannot be omitted. They
are most evident, of course, where the sons of the Flowery Empire have
settled earliest and in greatest numbers. In several localities Chinese
temples are found for the building and decorating of which renowned
architects, wood-carvers and painters have expressly been summoned to
Java at great expense. Reputedly the finest is the _klenteng_, situated
at a stone’s throw from the shed wherein Sunan Gunoong Jati’s _grobak_
is kept, the vehicle in which he descended from heaven to proclaim the
Word. Transplanting their curved roof-trees and gaudy ornament, the
Chinese brought also a taste for grotto-work, once notably conspicuous
in the _kraton_ of Sooltan Anom. On the road to Tagal, near the
_dessa_ (village) Sunyaragi, lies a rocky labyrinth belonging to the
pleasure-grounds of Sooltan Sepooh’s famous country-seat. Among other
clever devices it contains an artificial cave so constructed that the
_kanjeng goosti_, retiring thither on a hot afternoon for dalliance
with his favourite of the hour, might shut himself completely off from
the world by a discreet artificial waterfall, securing privacy behind
its liquid screen and a refreshing atmosphere stimulative to amorous
exercise. The Chinaman who elaborated the idea, had his eyes gouged out
to prevent his creating another such wonder of architecture adapted to
the diversions of oriental potentates.

