It was dark when I arrived at the _pasangrahan_, the Government
rest-house, received first by a shaggy, plumetailed dog of the Diëng
variety, suspicious of strangers. Her name proved to be Sarama,
suggesting classical associations not sustained, I am sorry to record,
by her master, mine host, a Swiss, retired from service in the Dutch
colonial army and put in charge of the place. Speaking innumerable
languages and every one of them as if it were a _lingua franca_
composed of all the others, he showed me my room, took orders for my
supper and made me comfortable, the broad, perpetual smile on his
honest face illumining our polyglot conversation. Alas! Wielandt is no
more. Indra, who knows men’s hearts, has certainly assigned to this
diamond, more polished, presumably, in its celestial than in its former
terrestrial state, a worthy station among the jewels of the city of
bliss, Amaravati. A man of family instincts, good Wielandt left several
daughters, at the time of my visit of initiation extremely shy little
girls; and a son, then Sinjo Endrik, the obliging and attentive, ever
ready to act as a guide to and otherwise to assist his father’s guests
on their excursions, now Tuan Endrik, his father’s successor in the
_pasangrahan_, while one of his brothers-in-law keeps a small, private
hotel, opened to meet the increasing influx of sightseers and seekers
of health. The Diëng plateau, especially in the dry season, would be an
ideal site for a sanatorium. The sufferer from the debilitating heat on
the coast in the enervating conditions of a continuous struggle for the
next dollar or official preferment with fatter salary, may find there
rest and a cool climate. Going to the bath-room before setting out early
on some expedition, I have often found miniature icicles pendent from
the _panchuran_, the water conduit, and riding off, have often heard,
in crossing a puddle, the thin coating of ice crackle under the hoofs
of my pony. Sometimes, at sunrise, the few remaining temples stand out
white, the whole plateau being covered with frost, which makes a strange
impression on one who but the day before yesterday sweltered in the
fiery furnace of, for instance, the Heerenstraat at Samarang.

