[Illustration: IV. _CHANDI_ BIMO OR WERGODORO ON THE DIËNG PLATEAU

(Archaeological Service through Charls and van Es.)]

The largest remaining and most beautiful temple on the Diëng is the
_chandi_ Wergodoro or Bimo,[31] where the Pangonan rises out of
the Rawa Glonggong. Notwithstanding Fergusson’s opinion, competent
critics, deriving their conclusions from the horizontal lines of the
roof-storeys, maintain its Dravidian or Southern Indian instead of
Chalukyan character.[32] The niches with busts, which impress one as
windows with people poking out their heads to see who is disturbing
their quiet, suggest an approach to ideas further developed in the
architecture of the plain of Prambanan. These curious persons look out
only at the back and at the sides; the niches of the roof in front, over
the projecting porch with _kala-makara_ ornament, are all empty. With
its entrance facing east, in contradistinction to those of the other
temples on the plateau, which face west, the _chandi_ Bimo possesses
also notable peculiarities in the details of its sculpture: the double
lotus of the cornice, lotus-buds and diminutive bo-trees of uncommon
shapes, etc., while the upward tapering structural design displays a
tendency to the slightly curved lines so dearly loved by Greek builders
of the best period and adapted by the masters of early Gothic. The
larger, lower niches have been despoiled; architraves and mouldings,
festooned with foliage, flowers and seed-pods, divide the open spaces
round about in a tasteful, sober manner, exciting without fatiguing
the eye. From the fact that the decoration has not been completed, it
is inferred that the sculptors were interrupted like their comrades at
work on other monuments of Central Java, overwhelmed perhaps by the
catastrophe of volcanic or martial nature, which depopulated the Diëng
and coincided with the decline of the ancient empire of Hindu Mataram.
The miraculous voice heard in the _chandi_ Bimo at dead of night, is
silent on this point. All temples have their _shetans_, their bad,
rarely good spirits, but the _genius loci_ of the Bimo excels the whole
Arjuno crowd of them in efficacy and unfailing attention to the business
of the seekers of advice, who arrive from far and wide to consult the
oracle. Entering after dusk the gate of the Dread One, Kala, one with
Rudra, the Roarer (the Kawa Kidang) near by, they have but to wait in
prayer at the altar of the wondrous fane. A strange whisper, mounting
like the odour of _melati_ and _kenanga_, tells them how to avoid the
grim giant Danger if, on leaving, they are firmly determined to pursue
the road of Good Desert.

