To the lover of mountain scenery it is far more profitable to wait
for dawn near the triangulation pillar and point of junction of four
residencies: Samarang, Pekalongan, Banyumas and the Bagelen, with a
fifth, the Kadu, only a few paces off, when the Eye of Day rises to
divide the waters behind the mountains and the rack of clouds, and,
to the north and the south of the island, the sea begins to glimmer
in the azure and orange tints sent before to meet the melting gray of
vanquished darkness. Following its course in all-compassing space, the
soul enters into silent communion with nature, the divine creation of
the supremely divine which teaches feeble men how to worship. Such
moments bring a wholesome chastening of the flesh and as we descend,
goaded by the fierce darts of the conqueror overhead who makes the
earth wrap herself in her vapoury robe of protection, veiling the
grand vision,--as we descend where the runnels descend that feed the
Serayu and the Tulis winding its way to the Kawah Kidang, we find the
plain with the _chandis_ one immense temple of adoration. The Vedic
subtle body yearns to enter the sheath of prayer, to be moulded by
its creator into the form fit for union with the spirit of the world;
respiration becomes aspiration to the beatitude of manifest truth, of
final rest in extinction of sin and shame and sorrow. So pass the hours
in purification, in desire of a spark of the thought which breathes
life into mortification of self. Then, at the passing of the light
with the last flush from the West, in awe-inspiring stillness, the
quivering stars lift their heads to watch the holy city of the dead; in
clear-toned stillness, the night-wind moaning, the Rawa lamenting the
lost civilisation of a lost religion whose symbols remain but are not
understood, a mourning for humanity labouring in vain. The Diëng has
been repopulated with a race between whose fanciful ideals, rooted in
a forgotten past, and the rapacity of foreign rulers no lasting accord
seems possible. Is it ordained that they, the thralls and the masters,
shall continue in their present relations? Or will they disappear in
their turn and, to quote Junghuhn, this mountain region revert to its
free, natural state? Perhaps in the hour of upheaval native seers
prophesy, when safety shall be found by none except to whom the Just
Reckoner grants it. And mingling in one measure, which comprises the
_jaman buda_, the time of bondage and the future, their dim notions
of Mahadeva, the Beneficent Destroyer, and their conception of the
dispensation of the Book, the leaders of religious exercise in the
villages abide by their advice of submission until the true believers
win the day, a day of glory for Islām, sure to arrive in the circular
course of existence, which is nothing but Sansara, in attainment of
Moslim brotherhood, which is nothing but Brahma Vihara, the sublime
condition of love. Meanwhile, hearing is to be practised; haply it
will lead to the comprehension of a lesson inculcated by each of the
three creeds amalgamated in the Javanese mind and best expressed in the
form borrowed from a fourth: The thing that hath been, is that which
shall be; and that which is done, is that which shall be done,--or, in
the version of the greatest poet of our own age: _Ciò che fu, torna e
tornerà nei secoli._[34]

