[30] Query: Has St. Patrick ever been on the Diëng?

[31] Or Bhimo, one of Arjuno’s four brothers and avenger of the honour
of the family on Kichaka, who had fallen in love with their common wife
Draupadi.

[32] No buildings in the Northern Indian or Indo-Arian style have been
found in Java.

[33] Reporting to the _Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences_, January
11, 1909.

[34] That which has been, returns and will return through all time.




[Illustration]




CHAPTER IV

PRAMBANAN

_Queen Gertrude...._

..., all that lives must die,
Passing through nature to eternity.

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, _Hamlet, Prince of Denmark_, I., ii.


The vast plain of Prambanan, which extends southward from the foot of
the Merapi, one of Java’s most active volcanoes,[35] is, or rather was,
studded with Sivaïte and Buddhist temples. Called, in the later days
of ignorance regarding their signification, after some outstanding
feature (Sewu, Loomboong, Asu), after gods, demi-gods and heroes of
romance (as on the Diëng), after the villages near which they were found
(Kalasan or Kali Bening), or after their general position, a good many
might share the appellation Prambanan. In speaking of _the_ Prambanan
temples, however, the group is meant which lies beside the main road
between Surakarta and Jogjakarta, where the two residencies meet, but
still within the boundaries of the latter. Excepting the Boro Budoor
and Mendoot, it comprises the finest and most famous monuments of
Central Java, which from olden times have been held in great veneration
by the population, even in their neglected condition, when reduced to
little more than heaps of overgrown debris, lairs of wild animals. Freed
from their luxurious vegetation and excavated, architectural remains
of the first order came to light with sculptured ornament nowhere
else surpassed in richness of detail and correctness of execution.
Surrounded by ruins of a mainly Buddhist character, these buildings
were consecrated to the Hindu Trinity with Siva leading the Trimoorti
as Bhatara Guru, Master and Teacher of the World. A date recently
discovered, 886 Saka (A.D. 964), or, according to another reading,
996 Saka (A.D. 1074), points to the period when Sivaïsm in Java had
already become strongly impregnated with Buddhism, a circumstance
fully borne out by the external decoration.

