The reader will recognise in this legend the hoary eastern material of
many others current also in western lands. It pervades the legendary
lore connected with the plain of Prambanan in widest sense, and one of
its many variations, to be recorded farther on, applies specially to the
Buddhist _chandi_ Sewu or “thousand temples”, only a little distance
from the Loro Jonggrang group;[43] in fact, originally adapted to
account for the many ruins scattered over a vast area in that region,
it has taken separate forms to meet the requirements of separate
localities. Apart from tradition, we owe the oldest extant description
of the Prambanan antiquities to the East India Company’s servant Lons at
Samarang, who wrote in 1733. The Governor-General van Imhoff referred to
them in 1746 and Raffles, his successor during the British Interregnum,
not satisfied with writing and talking alone, commissioned Cornelius
with Wardenaar to survey them and make plans for reconstruction. After
1816 things returned to the accustomed neglect: A short stay in the
plain of Prambanan, says an authority already quoted,[44] is sufficient
to note that thousands of valuable hewn and sculptured stones have been
and still are used for all sorts of purposes ...; from time immemorial,
great quantities of stone have been (and still are) taken from
Prambanan by his Highness the Sooltan of Jogjakarta, generally once or
twice a year ...; this happens, if I am well informed, in compliance
with a written demand, fiated by the local authorities. The foundation,
in 1885, of the Archaeological Society of Jogjakarta, which undertook
the excavation of the parts of the Loro Jonggrang group covered with
debris and vegetation, and the clearing of the whole, did little to
ameliorate the situation with respect to the carrying away from the
Prambanan temples, speaking collectively, of stones for the building of
houses, factories, etc., and of ornament for the decoration of private
grounds and gardens. Though bills were posted all over the ruins,
including Doorga’s, alias Loro Jonggrang’s sanctum, prohibiting, by
order of that Society, the salving of gods and goddesses with _boreh_
and the defacing of the walls with inscriptions, its members themselves
dragged statues away to fill a so-called museum of their contrivance
at the provincial capital, dislocating things of beauty, ranging the
_disjecta membra_ on scaffoldings in a shed as crockery on the shelves
of a cupboard. The monuments of Prambanan being primarily mausolea,
their first concern was to dig for the _saptaratna_, the seven treasures
buried with the ashes of the dead under the images of the deities
hallowing those perishable remains. The plunder consisted in urns
containing, besides the ashes, coins, rubies and other precious stones,
pieces of gold- and silver-leaf with cut figures (serpents, tortoises,
flowers), strips of gold-foil inscribed with ancient characters,
fragments of copper and glass, etc. The mortuary pits easiest to rifle,
had already been emptied before the semi-official spoilers turned their
attention to them. This chapter is not the most glorious in the history
of the Archaeological Society of Jogjakarta which, on the other hand,
started a work too long neglected by the Dutch Government, even after
Raffles’ vigorous initial effort. Incidentally it promoted the schemes
of the superficial yet very ambitious, pushing to the front on the
strength of what should have been put to the credit of more capable but,
to their detriment, more modest labourers in the archaeological field:
It is not always the most deserving horses that get the oats, says a
Dutch proverb.

