[Illustration: VII. PRAMBANAN RELIEFS

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

Siva is the keynote of the Prambanan group, Siva, the Jagad, the Bhatara
Guru, according to his prevalent title in the island. In the temple
which bears his name, he appeared as the leader in the exterior chapel
looking south; his wife, Doorga, looks north; their first-born, Ganesa,
looks west. The latter, sitting on his lotus cushion, is represented as
the Ekadanta, the elephant deprived of one of his tusks when fighting
Parashu Rama; a third eye in his forehead betokens his keenness of
sight; he wears in his crown the emblematic skull and crescent of his
father; one of his left hands brandishes his father’s battle-axe; one
of his right hands holds the string of beads suggesting prayer; his
father’s _upawita_, the hooded snake, is strung round his left shoulder
and breast. Doorga, his mother, born from the flames which proceeded
from the mouths of the gods, stands on the steer she killed when the
terrific animal had stormed Indra’s heaven and humiliated the immortals;
her eight hands[45] wield the weapons and other gifts bestowed upon her
by the deities at their delivery: Vishnu’s discus, Surya’s arrows, etc.
etc., while her nethermost right hand seizes the enemy’s tail and her
nethermost left hand the shaggy locks of the demon Maheso, who tries to
escape with the monster’s life. This magnificent piece of sculpture,
highly dramatic and yet within the limits of plastic art, the unknown
maker having instinctively obeyed the rules formulated in Lessing’s
_Laokoon_, some thousand years after his labours were ended, is the
petrified Lady Jonggrang, victim of Bondowoso’s revengeful love. It
does not matter to the native that Siva has always claimed her as his
consort, if not under the name of Doorga then under that of Kali or Uma,
ever since she, Parvati, the Mother of Nature, divided herself into
three female entities to marry her three sons, who are none but he who
sits enthroned as Mahadeva in the inner chamber, looking east, with his
less placid personifications, the _dvarapalas_ (doorkeepers) Nandisvara
and Mahakala, the wielders of trident and cudgel, guarding the entrance,
supported by demi-gods and heroes. The colossal statue of their heavenly
lord, broken into pieces by the falling roof, has been restored and
replaced on its _padmasana_ (lotus cushion). In this shape the god
wears the _makuta_ (crown) with skull and crescent, has a third eye in
his forehead and a cobra strung round his left shoulder and breast;
his body, decked with a tiger’s skin, rests against the _prabha_, his
aureole; one of his left hands holds his fly-flap, one of his right
hands his string of beads; of his trident only the stick remains.

