[47] Squirrels: _Sciurus nigrovittatus_ and _Pteromys elegans_ and
_nitidus_.

[48] _Pasar_ is held once every five days and once every thirty-five
days it falls, therefore, on a Friday.




[Illustration]




CHAPTER V

MORE OF CENTRAL JAVA

Le bon sens nous dit que les choses de la terre n’existent que
bien peu et que la vraie réalité est dans les rêves. CHARLES
BAUDELAIRE, _Les Paradis Artificiels (Dédication)_.


Except during a period of some four centuries and a half, from about 940
till the palmy days of Mojopahit, when declining Hindu civilisation, for
reasons as yet unexplained, sought a refuge farther east, Central Java
and especially that part of it known in our time as the Principalities,
_i.e._ Surakarta and Jogjakarta, has always been the heart of the
island. There lived and live the true Javanese, the people of heaven’s
mercy, cherishing their old traditions; these and the beautiful scenery
of their fire-mountains and fertile valleys are still theirs, whatever
else may fail: glory, power and freedom. They lived and live in their
world of custom and formality a life unintelligible in its inner
workings to the western brain, impenetrable to the western eye. There
are forces hidden in the Javanese mind, the resultant of a strangely
moved past, which we can never understand, though we may admire their
creative energy, revealed in the now conventional designs guiding the
hand of the potter, the wood-carver, the goldsmith, the armourer, the
_batikker_,[49] hereditary practisers of dying arts and crafts; in the
remains of a marvellous architecture long since altogether dead. No
chapter in the whole history of eastern art, says Fergusson, is so full
of apparent anomalies or upsets so completely our preconceived ideas of
things as they ought to be, as that which treats of the architectural
history of the island of Java ...; the one country to which they (the
Hindus) overflowed, was Java, and there they colonised to such an
extent as for nearly a thousand years to obliterate the native arts
and civilisation and supplant it by their own ...; what is still more
singular is, that it was not from the nearest shores of India that
these emigrants departed but from the western coast.... A _linga_,
erected in the Kadu in the year 654 Saka (A.D. 732), a Sivaïte symbol
of generation, marks the origin of an artistic activity whose most
brilliant period, the classical one of central Javanese architecture,
as G. P. Rouffaer styles it rightly, begins with the construction of
such buildings as the Buddhist _chandi_ Kalasan or Kali Bening. The
inscription of King Sanjaya in Venggi characters, and vestiges of
Vaishnav tendencies in the Suku and Cheto temples of a much later date,
point to the worship of Vishnu, while Brahma’s four sublime conditions
and more subtle transcendentalism do not seem to have attracted the
Javanese converts to Hinduïsm. They could grasp the unity of Siva’s
threefold functions much better and accepted him as Mahadeva at the
head of the Trimoorti. The advent of Buddhism in its _mahayanistic_
form, the creed of the northern church so called, served to emphasise
native tolerance. Sivaïsm and whatever there was of Vishnuïsm,
harmonised with Buddhism to the extent of borrowing and lending symbols,
emblems and divine attributes; Hindu gods played puss in the corner
with Bodhisatvas, as already remarked upon in the preceding chapter;
the _chandi_ Chupuwatu surprises us with a _stupa-linga_;[50] a
Javanese prince of the thirteenth century bears the expressive name of
Siva-Buddha; the old Javanese _Sang Hiang Kamahayanikan_ contains the
dictum: Siva is identical with Buddha.[51] If more inscriptions had been
found, more light might have been thrown on the anomalous ornamentation
of, for instance, the Prambanan temples and the Mendoot; but Sivaïte
records of the kind leaving the matter unexplained, Buddhist information
is still scantier, perhaps a consequence of Baghavat’s followers not
excelling in epigraphy or literary labours of any description.

