Of the Hindu empire Mataram in Central Java nothing tangible is left
except the ruins referred to, a few objects in metal and stone,
accidentally unearthed or dug up by treasure-seekers, and some
inscriptions, title-deeds, etc., the scanty “genuine charters of Java”
as van Limburg Brouwer defined them. The name Mataram has been preserved
on a copper plate, dating from about 900, which agrees in this respect
with four other records, discovered in East Java; the capital of the
_Maharaja i Mataram_ is called Medang. For two centuries, from the
beginning of the eighth until the beginning of the tenth, Mataram seems
to have flourished as the most powerful state in the island, especially
aggressive towards the east. Native tradition, in fond exaggeration
of her importance, makes her sway the destinies of the world. Her
star waned suddenly; by what cause is unknown; but whether it was the
invasion of a mightier enemy or a natural catastrophe, the same as that
which overtook the builders of the Diëng and the plain of Prambanan,
forcing them to leave their work unfinished, ancient Mataram sank into
insignificance. From the middle of the tenth until the beginning of
the sixteenth century, the successors of her former eastern vassals,
that is whichever of them happened to be on top in the continual
struggle for supremacy, did in East and Central Java as they pleased,
warring, intermarrying, annexing their neighbours’ domains, only to
lose them again and their own kingdoms to boot, to usurpers, ambitious
ministers, popular governors of provinces, enterprising _condottieri_
or mere adventurers favoured by Dame Fortune. In that overflowing
arena of high rivalry, dynasties succeeding one another with amazing
rapidity, Daha, situated in what is now Kediri, secured paramount
influence after Kahuripan, situated in what is now Southern Surabaya;
then Tumapel, situated in what is now Pasuruan, became ascendant; then
Daha once more and, last of the great Hindu empires, Mojopahit, about
1300, to be overthrown, after two centuries of preponderance, by the
sword of Islām. Jayabaya, King of Daha, from about 1130 till about
1160, has been called[57] the Charlemagne of Java, in whose reign
learning and letters were encouraged; or the Javanese King Arthur, whose
life among his heroes, in peace and war, is reflected in the idylls
of the _Panji_-cycle, at whose Court the famous poet Mpu Sedah began
his version of the _Mahabharata_, the _Brata Yuda_, finished by Mpu
Panulooh, author of the _Gatotkachasraya_, while Tanakoong wrote the
_Wretta-Sansaya_, a sort of _Epistola de Arte Poetica_. When Tumapel
expanded, especially under Ken Angrok, troublous times arrived for
Daha, which could hardly hold her own against the encroachments of that
unscrupulous monarch. Ken Angrok or Arok, born in 1182 at Singosari,
had seized the royal power after assassinating the old King in 1222 or
1223. The kris he used, had been ordered expressly for that deed from
the famous armourer Mpu Gandring, who was its first victim because he
tarried in delivering it, the tempering of the steel having taken more
time than suited the usurper’s patience. Dying under the murderous
stroke, Mpu Gandring uttered a prophetic curse: This kris will kill
Ken Angrok; it will kill his children and grandchildren; it will
kill seven kings. The prophecy came true with wonderful exactness.
Ken Angrok having married Dedes, the widow of the old King he had
despatched, was himself killed as the third victim of Mpu Gandring’s
kris in the hand of a bravo commissioned by their son Anusapati, the
Hamlet of Javanese history. And how blood followed blood during the
hundred years of Tumapel’s hegemony, how Ken Angrok’s descendants
harassed their neighbours before the curse took effect upon each of
them, appearing like luminous stars in the sky of politics and war, and
then disappearing behind the shadowy cloud of untimely death, is it not
written in the _Pararaton_ or Book of the Kings of Tumapel and
Mojopahit?

