The kris of Mpu Gandring might limit the earthly term of the descendants
of Ken Angrok, it could not check their prowess while they were still
up and doing. Overlords of East and Central Java, extending their rule
to Pajajaran, they even looked for conquest to the other islands of
the Malay Archipelago. Under Hayam Wurook or Rajasa Nagara, in the
latter half of the fourteenth century, Mojopahit reached her zenith; a
record of 1389 mentions Bali as being tributary since about 1340; Aru,
Palembang and Menangkabau in Sumatra, Pahang with Tumanik in Malacca,
Tanjong Pura in Borneo, Dompo in Soombawa, Ceram and the Goram islands
acknowledged Nayam Wurook’s suzerainty too. Seeing no more worlds to
subdue, he died and, as in the case of Alexander the Great, his empire
fell to pieces; in East Java itself Balambangan seceded from Mojopahit
proper and the Muhammadan propaganda, fanning discord between the
Hindu princes of old and new dynasties, prepared their common doom.
The beginnings of the Islām in East Java have already been spoken of,
with Gresik as a missionary centre, Maulana Malik Ibrahim as the first
_wali_ in that region and the conversion into Moslim vassal states
of the dependencies of Mojopahit, whose princes, combining under the
auspices of Demak against their liege lord, sealed his fate. Raden
Patah of Demak was a man of war and destiny. The fire of the new faith
burning fiercely within him, he hurled his defiance at the stronghold
of the heathen, speaking to the last King of Mojopahit, his father or
grandfather according to tradition, as Amaziah, King of Juda, spoke
to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, King of Israël: Come,
let us see one another in the face,--but with a different result: the
challenger from Demak came out victorious and Mojopahit ceased to exist,
an issue fraught with grave consequences. This occurred about the year
1500[58] and Raden Patah, pursuing the royal family on their flight,
defeated the King or one of his sons again at Malang, where a last stand
was made. But Gajah Mada, the Prime Minister of Mojopahit, founded a
new empire, Supit Urang, which comprised much of the territory once
belonging to Singosari. The Saivas also held out at Pasuruan, which
was invested by Pangeran Tranggana, a successor of Raden Patah, but
after his assassination by one of his servants, the troops of Demak
returned home. Pasuruan and Surabaya reverted, later on, to the Regent
of Madura, a son-in-law of Pangeran Tranggana. Yet, Hinduïsm lingered on
in the island; its political power was only broken with the conquest of
Balambangan by the East India Company in 1767, and the population of the
Tengger mountain region did not commence to accept the Islām until very
recently.

