In 1825 the divided remnant of Mataram, viz. Surakarta with the Mangku
Negaran and Jogjakarta with the Paku Alaman,[63] was deeply stirred by
Pangeran Anta Wiria calling upon his compatriots to chase the oppressors
away. Born from a woman of low descent among the wives of Mangku Buwono
III., Sooltan of Jogjakarta, it seems that, nevertheless, hopes of his
succession to the throne had been held out to him when he assisted his
father against the machinations of his grandfather, Sooltan Sepooh
(Mangku Buwono II.), banished by Raffles in 1812. However this may be,
he resented the settlement of the Sooltanate on the death of Mangku
Buwono III. upon Jarot, an infant son, and other circumstances adding
to his dislike of Dutch control, he raised the standard of revolt. The
Javanese responded with alacrity to an appeal which bore good tidings
of delivery as the wind, ridden by the Maroots who make the mountains
to tremble and tear the forest into pieces, bears good tidings of
coming rain to a parched earth. Anta Wiria, under his more popular
name of Dipo Negoro, and his lieutenants Ali Bassa Prawira Dirja, or
Sentot, and Kiahi Maja, gave the Dutch troops plenty of bloody work in
the five years during which the Java war lasted, 1825-1830. It was the
last eruption on a large scale of the fire imprisoned in the native’s
heart, the last sustained effort at regaining his independence, crushed
by the white man’s superiority in military appliances, but occasional
throbbings, ruffling the surface as in Bantam (1888), the Preanger
Regencies (1902), Kediri (1910), etc., show that the volcano is by no
means an extinguished one. Though “kingdoms are shrunk to provinces and
chains clank over sceptred cities,” the love of liberty, laid by as a
sword which eats into itself, does not own foreign dominion, and the
native princes, especially the Susuhunan of Surakarta and the Sooltan
of Jogjakarta, remain objects of worshipful homage. Their genealogy
remounts to the gods whose essence took substance in the illustrious
prophet Adam who begat Abil and Kabil on the goddess Kawa; the history
of their house begins with the arrival in the island, in the Javanese
year 1, of Aji Soko; they are the _panatagama_ and _sayidin_ (_shah
ad-din_), directors and leaders of religion; their Courts set the
fashion in high native society, Solo[64] being more gay and extravagant,
Jogja[64] more sedate and solid, as a writer at the end of the
eighteenth century already remarked.

