[Illustration: XIII. WATER-CASTLE AT JOGJAKARTA

(Centrum.)]

The building of the “water-castle”, whose pavilions, artificial lakes,
tanks and gardens spread over an area of about twenty-five acres,
was begun in 1758 by a Buginese architect under the orders of Mangku
Buwono I., a great raiser of edifices, as Nicolaas Hartingh[74] wrote
in 1761, and maker of “fountains, grotto-work and conduits which,
though completed, he orders immediately to be pulled down, not finding
them to his taste, thus squandering some little money.” We possess a
description[75] of the _kraton_ at Jogjakarta, dated September 1791,
from the hand of Carl Friedrich Reimer,[76] who speaks of “a collection
of gardens, fish-ponds and pleasure-pools.” He probably visited Pulu
Gedong before proceeding to Taman Sari[77] and expatiates on the
spaciousness of the dwelling room in Pulu Kananga, where it seems that
the Court could find plenty of accommodation. But what made the greatest
impression on the expert in hydraulics was the arrangement of passages
and an apartment for prayer and meditation under water, as if the
Sooltan deemed it an advantage to worship surrounded by the babbling
stream, light and fresh air being provided through turrets rising above
the surface. In the place called Oombool Winangoon, situated on a low
level, with three tanks, fed from the great lake of Taman Sari, was a
cool retreat where the Sooltan used to rest a while after his bath,
refreshing himself with a cup of tea. Alluding to the Sumoor Gumuling,
Reimer remarks that the architect must have chosen a round form for
his structure to make it the better resist the pressure of the water
all round. The strange building which went by that name and consisted
of two concentric walls with a flat roof,[78] taken for a subaqueous
house of prayer by the visitor of 1791, has also been very differently
explained: some see in its remains a dancing-school, awakening visions
of the Sooltan’s _corps de ballet_ practising in the first storey to
the dulcet tones of the _gamelan_, the native orchestra, that ascended
from the basement and aided them in going through their paces; others
connect it with functions never referred to in polite society and which
have nothing in common with praying, either with the heart or with
the feet, more correctly speaking: with the arms, hands and hips, for
Javanese dancing is no loose skipping and hopping about, but a graceful
and expressive play of the body and more particularly of the upper limbs
in rhythmic, undulating motion. Passing from one lake to the next, the
Sooltan’s means of conveyance was the _prahu_ Niahi Kuning, a gorgeously
decorated barge, given to him by the East India Company; other boats,
plying between Taman Sari and Taman Ledok, were at the disposal of the
ladies of the royal household desirous of an outing with their babies;
two small skiffs left their moorings every night alternately, at a
signal given on a _bendeh_, to feed the fishes, which knew the sound and
assembled in shoals. The guard-rooms near the northern watergate, of
which the remaining one, _i.e._ the one not altogether fallen into ruin,
shelters in the morning a motley crowd of sellers of fruit, vegetables,
sweetmeats, etc., witnesses to the Company’s dragoons, protecting and
shadowing their Highnesses of Surakarta and Jogjakarta with the princes
of their blood, already having been entrusted with that task in the days
of Mangku Buwono I.

