[83] Lit. “the high place” of the _kraton_.

[84] Short for _dos-à-dos_, a kind of vehicle naturalised in Java;
offering only problematic comfort at its very best, the ramshackle
specimens plying for hire in the streets of the capital towns of the
island, beat everything ever invented anywhere else in the world for
inflicting torture on the pretext of conveyance.

[85] _Doits_ are copper coins of endless variety, demonetised
more than half a century ago but still used by the natives almost
exclusively and to the prejudice of the legal “cent”, the hundredth
part of the “guilder” or legal unit of the Dutch East Indian currency,
notwithstanding the Government’s efforts (on paper) through the medium
of financial geniuses, whose name is Legion and whose practical
performance is Nihil, to put the monetary system and colonial finance in
general on a firm, workable basis.

[86] ... Not yet, the work of (our) time has not yet reached its
fullness.




[Illustration]




CHAPTER VI

EAST JAVA

cosi da l’ossa dei sepolti cantano
i germi de la vita e degli spiriti.[87]

GIOSUÈ CARDUCCI, _Odi Barbare_ (_Canto di marzo_).


When, suddenly, for reasons still unknown, the classic period of art
in Central Java closed, about 850 Saka (A.D. 928), East Java
awakened and entered on an era of artistic activity in every direction,
which lasted until the fall of Mojopahit six centuries and a half
later. In architecture it offers nothing so grand and imposing as the
ancient temples of the Middle Empire, but much more diversity, and
numerous inscriptions, resembling, after 900 Saka (A.D. 978),
in form and contents, what we possess of old Javanese literature,
enable us in many cases to determine the dates and also the character
of the _chandis_, found principally along the course of the Brantas
in the residencies Pasuruan, Kediri and Surabaya. Moving eastward, it
was there that Hindu civilisation made greatest progress, no more
in the vigorous enthusiasm of a young faith eager to proselyte, but
modified by and finally succumbing to the influences of the soil,
the climate, the idiosyncrasies of the aborigines. The oldest dates
(Madioon, Kediri, Surabaya and Pasuruan) fall between 890 and 1140;
then we have a good many again from Kediri (1120-1240 and 1270-1460)
and from Surabaya (1270-1490); also from Pasuruan, Probolinggo and
Besuki (1340-1470), Madura (1290-1440) and Rembang (1370-1390); finally,
the constructive energy returning to Central Java, from Samarang and
Surakarta (1420-1460), Suku and Cheto bringing up the rear. In the palmy
days of Daha and Tumapel a sort of transition style was elaborated;
under Ken Angrok and his descendants on the throne of Mojopahit, East
Java reached its architectural zenith, never equal in the grandeur of
its conceptions to the Boro Budoor or even the Prambanan temples, to
the symmetrical richness of the Mendoot, but making up in fantastic
decoration what it had lost in sobriety of outline. The builders
pandered to the unwholesome demand for that perfection at any cost
which Ruskin censures as the main mistake of the Renaissance in its
early stages, the workman losing his soul in exchange for consummate
finish. But, though they bear the impress of decadence, the products of
eastern Javanese constructive efforts are not wholly degenerate, never
coarse or vulgar and well worth looking at from more than one point of
view. The evolution of the ornament alone is exceedingly suggestive:
the “recalcitrant spiral” which in Central Java ascends, decking the
supports, topples, as it were, in East Java, losing its character and
becoming a meaningless adornment of the casements of, _e.g._, the
_chandi_ Panataran; the _kala_-heads remain but the _makaras_ change
into a flame-like embellishment; where they are altogether dissolved,
as in the _chandi_ Jago or Toompang, it is safe to conclude with Dr.
Brandes to late eastern Javanese influences.[88]

