[Illustration: XV. _CHANDI_ PAPOH

(Archaeological Service through Charls and van Es.)]

Holiness in East Java, as everywhere in the island, took naturally
to bathing. The retreat Bookti in the district Rembes, set apart for
that pastime, according to the legend by Semu Mangaran, first king of
Ngarawan (the later Bowerno and still later Rembang), had and has many
rivals, nearly all in possession of antiquities to show their sacred
character and the regard in which they were held. Some, like Bookti
and Banyu Biru, the deservedly popular “blue water” of Pasuruan, are
enlivened by colonies of monkeys, descendants of the apes kept there in
Hindu times, beggars by profession, whose antics reap a rich reward.
Sarangan in Madioon, Trawulan and Jalatoonda in Surabaya, Jati Kuwoong
and Panataran in Kediri, Ngaglik and Balahan in Pasuruan, shared in
olden times the renown which now is principally divided between Banyu
Biru and Wendit, not to forget Oombulan, delightful spots, typical of a
land where life is a continuous caress. Ngaglik has a beautiful female
statue, evidently destined to do service as a fountain-figure after
the manner of the nymphs which grace John the Fleming’s[94] Fontana
del Nettuno in Bologna and countless other waterworks of his and the
succeeding period. Wendit has Sivaïte remains: the prime god’s _nandi_,
statues of Doorga, Ganesa, etc.; most of the _lingas_ and _yonis_ that
used to keep them company as reminders of their inmost nature, have been
carried off. Banyu Biru has a statue of Doorga, _raksasas_, fragments
of Banaspatis, etc., and a very remarkable image of Ganesa with female
aspect, an object of veneration, especially on Friday evenings when
flowers and copper, even silver coins are strewn round to propitiate
his dual spirit, candles are lighted and sweetmeats offered to the
ancient deities taken collectively. The _chandis_ Jalatoonda and Putri
Jawa served a double purpose: devotion and ablution, facilities for an
invigorating bath playing a prominent part. The former, in the district
Mojokerto, residency Surabaya, is the mausoleum of King Udayana, father
of King Erlangga, and one of the oldest monuments in East Java; the
latter, in the district Pandakan, residency Pasuruan, has much in
common, as to ornament, with the _chandi_ Surawana of the year 1365 and
belongs on the contrary to the younger products of Hindu architecture.
_Chandi_ Putri Jawa means “temple of the Javanese princesses”, and
Ratu Kenya, the Virgin Queen of Mojopahit (1328-1353), who spoiled her
reputation for chastity by losing her heart to a groom in her stables
and making him share her throne, as the _Damar Wulan_ informs us, may
have repaired thither with her ladies-in-waiting to sacrifice and
disport in the swimming-tank which is still replenished with water from
the neighbouring river, flowing through the cleverly devised conduits;
or the women of her luckless last successor, King Bra Wijaya, may have
taken their pleasure there along with their devotional exercises before
the Moslim torrent swamped their lord and master’s high estate, harem
and all.

