About a mile to the southeast of Malang, on the top of a hill near the
_kampong_ Bureng, are traces of more buildings constructed in brick,
the ruins of Kota Bedah. The foundation of that city is attributed to
a son of Gajah Mada, chief minister of the last king of Mojopahit who,
after his master’s fall, fled eastward and, subjecting Singosari with
adjoining territories, became the progenitor of the dynasty of Supit
Urang. The Moslemin pushing on and harassing the Saivas wherever met,
invested Kota Bedah but, not prevailing against the strong defence of
its commander Ronga Parmana, they caught the citizens’ pigeons which
flew over their camp and, attaching pieces of burning match-rope to
the birds’ wings and tail-feathers, they set fire to the thatch of
the houses within the walls and so gained their end. Thereupon they
destroyed the royal residence Gedondong, to the east of Malang, and
those of Supit Urang took refuge in the Tengger mountains. This is
one of several traditions explaining the existence of Sivaïte remains
scattered in that neighbourhood: at Dinoyo, Karanglo, Singoro, Katu,
Pakentan, etc. On the road to Toompang stands the _chandi_ Kidal, one
of the best preserved in Java, only the upper part of the roof having
fallen down. It is the mausoleum of Anusapati, the Hamlet of Javanese
history, referred to in the preceding chapter, who was killed in 1249
by his step-brother. His likeness has been sought in an image of Siva,
on the supposition that some statues of deities there erected, which
point to the use of living models, represent the features of exalted
personages. An enormous Banaspati over the entrance with smaller ones
over the niches, _garudas_ and lions form the principal decoration in
frames of highly finished ornament. Dr. Brandes remarks that in contrast
to the decoration of the temples in Central Java, the heavy ornament
of the relief-tableaux is here distributed over the parts which carry
the weight of the superstructure, while the lighter ornament finds
employment on the panels and facings. The methods of construction
and the treatment of details mark clearly a transition to the younger
period of eastern Javanese architecture best illustrated by the _chandi_
Panataran.

