[Illustration: XVI. _CHANDI_ SINGOSARI

(Archaeological Service through Charls and van Es.)]

Somewhat older, built in 1278 as a mausoleum for Kertanegara, the
last king of Tumapel, who reigned from 1264 to 1292 and was killed in
battle by Jaya Katong, King of Daha, is the _chandi_ Singosari, near
the railway station of that name, an excellent starting-point for an
ascension of the fire-mountain Arjuno or Widadaren. It has been called
one of the most unfortunate monuments in the island; not, presumably,
because it shared the common lot, being gradually deprived of its finest
ornament while its stones were freely disposed of for building material
without the local authorities minding in the least, but because the
spoliation could be watched by a comparatively large number of planters
and industrials, settled in the neighbourhood, none of them interfering
unless to its detriment. Insurmountable difficulties of transportation
opposed the removal of the colossal _raksasas_ and so they were left
with a _nandi_, a sun-carriage and, among fragments too defaced for
recognition, a Ganesa and a female Buddhist saint, for this temple-tomb
is of a mixed character in its religious aspect. A Javanese chronicle
relates that Kertanegara was buried at Singosari in 1295, three years
after his death, in the guise of Siva-Buddha, and at Sakala conformably
to a more pronounced Buddhist rite. He was considered a wise ruler,
notwithstanding his abusive attitude towards China, which had such
dire results. He built an edifice, continues the _babad_, divided into
two parts, the lower one Sivaïtic, the upper one Buddhistic, because
in his life he prided himself on being a Saiva as well as a Buddhist.
A richly ornamented _kala_-head in eastern Javanese style testifies to
the admirable technique of the builders and decorators. According to
popular belief a subterranean passage leads from Singosari to Polaman,
about six miles away, a place of sacrifice in Hindu days, and another
to Mondoroko, close by, the site of a ruin with a graceful statue of a
female deity, two smaller ones which remind the beholder of Siva’s and
Doorga’s creative faculties, and sadly damaged bas-reliefs. In 1904
an inscribed stone was recovered, at the intimation of a native, from
a pond near Singosari. Confirming the data furnished by the Javanese
chronicles, the inscription states that in 1351 Gajah Mada, the Prime
Minister of Mojopahit, acting for King Wisnuwardhani, founded a
temple-tomb, sacred to the memory of the priests, Saivas and Buddhists,
who, in the year 1292, had followed their King Kertanegara in death, and
of the old Prime Minister who had been killed at his feet.... “See here
the foundation of the most honourable Prime Minister of Java’s sea-girt
domain.”

