[Illustration: XVII. _CHANDI_ TOOMPANG

(Archaeological Service through Charls and van Es.)]

Finest and most interesting of the Malang complex is the
_chandi_ Jago, about twelve miles to the east of the capital of the
assistant-residency, in the _aloon aloon_ of Toompang and hence more
commonly named _chandi_ Toompang. It was the first taken in hand by
the Commission appointed in 1901 and we owe most of the information,
summarised in the following lines, to Dr. Brandes’ reports on this
archaeological debut. A rare example of tower-construction of the kind
also observed in the _chandi_ Jaboong, superposed on a raised level
reached by terraces like those of the _chandis_ Panataran and Boro
Budoor, the extraordinary Javanese mixture of Sivaïsm and Buddhism
with a dash of Vishnuïsm has affected it to such a degree that even
a recent description declares it to be a Buddhist pit-temple--a
contradiction in terms. Begun in the middle of the thirteenth century,
_i.e._ in the time of Tumapel’s political ascendency when Sivaïsm
was the state religion, if we may speak of a state religion among
peoples and princes whose predominant article of faith was tolerance
and concession of equal rights to all religions, some of the learned
investigators suppose with Professor Speyer that the Buddhist note was
a consequence of the persecution of the adherents of Gautama’s creed
in India and the hospitality extended to the emigrants all over the
island Java. However this may be, syncretism became rampant in both the
ground-plan and the decoration of the _chandi_ Toompang, conceived as
an elevated dodecagonal structure on the highest of three irregularly
shaped terraces, something quite exceptional in Javanese architecture.
Apparently while the building was in progress, remarks Rouffaer, changes
were made in the original project, and the more is the pity that the
temple proper has fallen into almost complete ruin: not only that the
roof is lacking, but the toppling back wall has dragged the greater
part of the north and south walls down with it. The front or west wall
has held out to a certain extent with the gateway, the chief entrance,
a lofty, rectangular, monumental passage, ornamented on both sides and
locked with a key-stone whose smooth middle space was destined, in the
opinion of Dr. Brandes, to receive, but never did receive, the date of
completion. Heaps of debris round about lead to the conjecture that the
whole was encircled by a wall of brick and that the dwellings of the
keepers or officiating priests were composed of the same material.

