In this respect it seems relevant to point to the circumstance that the
monuments of the smaller Soonda islands, much more conveniently placed
for the unscrupulous spoiler because under less constant observation
of the general public, are exposed to even greater danger than those
in Java, Government supervision counting for worse than nothing. A
Batavia paper denounced quite recently a traveller who had been visiting
the Dutch East Indies and, armed with letters of recommendation from
personages of the highest rank and title in the Netherlands, had been
collecting curiosa and antiquities on a vast scale only to advertise his
collection for sale as soon as unpacked after his return to Europe. It
contained carved ornament from temples, sacrificial vessels and statuary
from Bali, besides woven goods, implements used in _batikking_, musical
instruments, _wayang_-puppets, etc. The profit attached to this sort of
globe-trotting is enormous, since the coveted objects can be acquired
for a mere song by taking advantage of the influential assistance
secured through letters of recommendation over high-sounding names.
A hint from those in authority goes a very long way with the docile
native, in fact goes the whole way of appropriation at a nominal value,
and the big official who left his post in the exterior possessions,
bound for home, also quite recently, with fifty boxes of antique ware of
a different kind, collected in his residency, made certainly as good a
haul as the distinguished, brilliantly recommended tourist.

[Illustration]

FOOTNOTES:

[87]

So from the bones of those inhumed sing
The germs of life and of the spirits.

[88] Cf. Miss MARTINE TONNET’S article in the _Bulletin of the
Dutch Archaeological Society_, 1908, on the work of the Archaeological
Commission.

[89] Cf. Professor J. H. C. KERN’S paper on Sivaïsm and
Buddhism in Java apropos of the old Javanese poem _Sutasoma_, Amsterdam,
1888.

[90] The Pangerans of Giri continued for almost two centuries to
exercise their spiritual authority, opposing the supremacy of the
Princes of New Mataram until the Susuhunan Mangku Buwono II. had the
last of them assassinated with all the male members of his family
(1680).

