[Illustration: XIX. _CHANDI_ KALASAN

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

Central Java is richer yet in the quality than in the quantity of its
Buddhist monuments, whose builders and decorators, like the true
artists they were, told what they knew and believed, nothing but that,
and therefore told it so well.[111] To examine their work, beautiful
even in decay, beginning with the smaller structures, we wend our way
again to the plain of Prambanan. Travelling from Jogjakarta to Surakarta
by rail, the first stopping-place, reached in about twenty minutes, is
Kalasan, the _chandi_ of that name, otherwise called Kali Bening, being
visible from the train. Once it must have been one of the finest and
most elaborately wrought in the island; now only the south front, nearly
tumbling down, witnesses to its former splendour. It was built in 700
Saka (A.D. 778), a date preserved in a Nagari inscription which
settles that point,[112] and names a Shailandra prince as its founder in
honour of his _guru_ (teacher), doing homage to Tara[113] who, seeing
the destruction of men in the sea of life, which is full of incalculable
misery, saves them by three means ...; it speaks of a grant of land to
the monks of a neighbouring monastery, contains several particulars of
practical value with an admonition to keep a bridge or dam in repair,
etc. The building, in the form of a Greek cross, had four apartments,
reached by a terrace and four staircases, the stones of which have been
carried away long ago. The four gates, judging by the little left on
one of them, were profusely decorated with the _kala-makara_ motive
dominating the ornament. The roof bore images of Dhyani Buddhas in 44
niches and was crowned with 16 dagobs so called, the principal one
rising probably to a great height. Time and rapine have reduced this
magnificent realisation of a glorious conception, this masterpiece of
measured luxury, as Rouffaer styles it justly, to a melancholy heap of
debris. The statuary which adorned the exterior is gone, save three
images in their niches, examples of the gorgeous but never too florid
ornamentation; the interior pictures desolation, ruin within ruin! A
disfigured elephant, driven by a horned monster, its mahout, protrudes
from the wall above the throne it protects, but the cushioned seat is
empty. The statue taken from it was presumably a representation of the
beatific Tara glorified in the inscription, the noble and venerable
one, whose smile made the sun to shine and whose frown made darkness to
envelop the terrestrial sphere. It has been surmised that the mysterious
female deity in the residency grounds at Jogjakarta originally filled
the throne of Kalasan, but the vanished Tara left her cushion behind
and the unknown goddess, whose lovely body rivals the lotus-flower in
august sweetness, holds firmly to her _padmasana_ in addition to her
attributes defying identification as the mother of the Buddha who is to
be.

