[Illustration: XX. _CHANDI_ SARI

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

As in India, pious foundations for the benefit of those under bond to
serve religion, disregarding worldly considerations, must have been
numerous in Java, especially in the plain of Prambanan, once studded
with _viharas_ like Asoka’s kingdom, the “Behar” of to-day. Passing
over the monastic claims advanced for some ruins in the southern
mountains, those of Plahosan cannot be ignored. There we find the
remains of two buildings, formerly enclosed by a wall, portions of
which are recognisable, and surrounded by smaller structures arranged
in three rows, the inner ones reminding of the style conspicuous in the
_chandi_ Sewu, about a mile to the west-southwest. Close together,
but originally perhaps divided by a second wall, they are situated
due north and south from each other with their entrances to the west;
the roofs have succumbed; of the two storeys only the lower ones,
containing sufficient space for three rooms, are tolerably preserved.
Of a composite nature, the _chandi_ Plahosan was presumably rather a
_sangharama_ than a _vihara_ and the doorkeeper at the gate, when all
those scattered stones and the smashed, stolen or otherwise removed
statues were still in place, may have welcomed the wayfarer, seeking
shelter on a tempestuous night, with such difficult questions as barred
access to the hospitality of Silabhadra, the superior of Nalanda, and
his flock. Hiuen Tsiang, the Chinese pilgrim, who could answer them all
and a good many more, has left us a description of the _sangharama_,
the six consolidated _viharas_ of Nalanda with their towers, domes and
pavilions, embellished by the piety of the kings of the five Indies;
their gardens, splashing fountains and shady groves, where he spent
several years learning Sanskrit and the wisdom of the holy books, never
thinking the days too long; their life of ease, scarcely conducive
to the austere observance of pristine discipline by the ten thousand
brethren under vows and novices who crowded thither to seek purification
and deliverance from sin in study and meditation,--a description which,
for want of any better, our fancy takes leave to apply to Plahosan.
Though separated by months of travel from Bodhimanda, where Sakyamuni
entered the state of the perfect Buddha and the proximity of which
gave Nalanda its holy character, the zeal of its scholars and saints,
no less tolerant than Hiuen Tsiang’s temporary co-students, who sifted
with laudable impartiality the truth from the Vedas, from the doctrines
of the two vehicles and from the heresies of the eighteen schismatics,
undoubtedly stimulated religious life in the best sense of the word,
religion disposing the mind to kindliness and goodwill, as it should,
strengthening social ties, fostering science and art.

