[Illustration: XXI. _RAKSASA_ OF THE _CHANDI_ SEWU

(Centrum.)]

By the time we reach the thousand temples, Surya, the sun-god, has
driven his fiery carriage to the zenith of his daily course through
the air and the fire-eyed _raksasas_, who guard the enclosure of
holiness; two for each of the four entrances, stretch their gigantic
limbs with dreadful menace in the warm brilliancy of indefinite space,
tangible terror. Down on one knee to strike, snakes hanging from their
left shoulders as poisonous baldrics, they seem to mark the transition
between the worship of Kala, quickening destruction personified, and
the creed which hails in death the portal to nirvanic nothingness,
the liberation from life’s miseries. Behind them reigns the stillness
of a tropical noon, subduing heaven and earth to silent but intensely
passionate day-dreams. The kingly sun, the sun of Java, wide-skirted
Jagannath, having mounted to the summit of the fleckless sky, pauses
a moment before descending, he, the light of the world, exciting to
generative emotion all that dwells below. The fructifying charm of his
touch is manifest in the exuberant fertility of this island fortunate;
in the vitality of its people, unrestrained in creative capacity by
centuries of spoliation; in their mental make-up, revealed in their
history, their beliefs, traditions and legends. The legend of the
_chandi_ Sewu may be adduced as an instance in point, though nothing
but a different version of the legend of the _chandi_ Loro Jonggrang.
One ancient effort to account for architectural wonders deemed of
supernatural origin, by an explanation whose Indian basic idea was
transplanted from the fields of eastern to those of western folk-lore
too, serving at first, perhaps, for all the monuments in the plains
of Prambanan and Soro Gedoog, became the framework of different tales
adapted to the requirements of different localities. Here it is the
story of Mboq Loro Jonggrang repeated, and her lover Raden Bandoong
Bondowoso is the son of the beautiful Devi Darma Wati, daughter of Prabu
Darmo Moyo, king of the mighty empire of Pengging, whose two brothers,
Prabu Darmo Haji and Prabu Darmo Noto, were kings respectively of
Slembri and Sudhimoro.

