The _babad chandi Sewu_ describes a public function at the Court of
Prabu Darmo Moyo, who sits on his throne of ivory, inlaid with the
rarest gems. The _aloon aloon_ outside swarms with his warriors and
while he pronounces judgment and invests and displaces, ambassadors from
Prambanan are announced. They deliver a letter from Prabu Karoong Kolo,
in which the Boko, the giant-king, asks Prabu Darmo Moyo’s daughter,
Devi Darma Wati, in marriage. The Princess, acquainted with his suit,
declares that she will marry no one but the man, be he king or beggar,
able to rede a riddle which is given, written on a _lontar_-leaf, to
the ambassadors who thereupon depart. On their arrival at Prambanan,
Prabu Karoong Kolo breaks impatiently the seal of the communication;
learning its meaning, his eyes dart flames, his mouth foams and,
tearing the _lontar_-leaf into pieces and trampling upon it, making the
earth tremble and disturbing the sky with his noisy wrath, he collects
his army and marches against Pengging to raze the _kraton_ of Prabu
Darmo Moyo and carry Darma Wati off. The King of Pengging, warned
of the approaching danger, implores his brother Darmo Noto, King of
Sudhimoro, to assist him; with his brother Darmo Haji, King of Slembri,
an odious tyrant, he has broken long ago. Prabu Darmo Noto orders his
son, the Crown Prince Raden Damar Moyo, to lead his troops against the
giant-king. Traversing the woods at the head of his men, scaling cliffs
and climbing mountains, crossing rivers and ravines, attacked by evil
spirits and wild animals, Damar Moyo, strenuous in the cause of his
uncle and his fair cousin, hastens to their defence but, leaving every
one behind, he loses his way and, tired out at last, falls asleep. A
strange sensation of heavenly joy awakens him and, opening his eyes,
he beholds the supreme god, Bathara Naradha, who presents him with the
celestial weapons of the abode of the immortals, Jonggring Saloko,
salves his forehead with the divine spittle to make him invulnerable and
invincible, and puts into his hand the flower Sekar Joyo Kusumo which
will enable him to rede Devi Darma Wati’s riddle. Strengthened and more
enthusiastic than ever, Raden Damar Moyo, having rejoined his army,
engages the giants of Prambanan and defeats them, astonishing friend and
foe with his acts of superhuman prowess. He redes the riddle, marries
Darma Wati, and his father-in-law, Prabu Darmo Moyo, appoints him
_senapati_, _i.e._ commander-in-chief of the forces of Pengging.

