The legend being too long for insertion in full, besides its containing
details too candidly illustrative of the generative emotion engendered
by the wide-skirted Jagannath, a summary of the events which led to the
foundation of the _chandi_ Sewu must suffice. Boko Prabu Karoong Kolo,
King of Prambanan, loses his life in another attempt at the subjugation
of Pengging, and Raden Damar Moyo, having nothing more to fear from
that side, but naturally inclined to strife and contest, resolves to
take part in the wars then raging among the kings of the Thousand
Empires, Sewu Negoro. So he leaves his wife and the son born to them,
Raden Bandoong, who grows into a comely youth. Arriving at manhood and
still in complete ignorance of his sire’s name and lineage, the prince
questions his mother on that subject but, in obedience to an express
order from the gods, she refuses to tell him. Vexed and suspicious, he
equips himself from the armoury of his grandfather, Prabu Darmo Moyo,
and eludes maternal vigilance, escaping from the _kraton_ in search of
his father. After many adventures, culminating in a conflict with his
parent in the Sewu Negoro, the two meeting and exchanging hard blows and
parting as strangers, he reaches Prambanan, kills Tumenggoong Bondowoso,
left in charge of that realm, and falls in love with Devi Loro
Jonggrang, daughter of the late Boko Prabu Karoong Kolo. But he has been
forestalled in her favour by his cousin Raden Boko, who is to become
her husband on condition of the overthrow of Pengging and Sudhimoro.
Suspecting a rival while maturing his plans for conquest, this Raden
Boko takes a mean advantage of the lady by a trick learnt from a recluse
who lends him a _tesbeh_ (string of prayer-beads) which possesses the
power of transforming its temporary owner into a white turtle-dove.
So disguised, he flies to the women’s quarter of the _kraton_ of
Prambanan and attracts the attention of Loro Jonggrang, who responds to
the lovely bird’s advances, puts it in her bosom and pets and fondles
it to her heart’s content until, alas! it is killed by an arrow sped
from the never erring bow of Raden Bandoong, thanks to the busybodies
of the palace having informed him of the idyllic progressive cooing.
Woman-like, the bereaved Devi submits to the inevitable after a period
of passionate mourning, and promises her heart and hand to the stronger
if not more dexterous suitor on condition of his building a thousand
temples in one night between the first crowing of the cock and daybreak.
With the help of the gods of Jonggring Saloko he accomplishes the task,
but at the moment that he whispers _astaga[119] chandi Sewu_, struck by
the sight of the moonlit plain blossoming into a city of holiness, the
immortals change him for his arrogant prayer into a monster of horrible
aspect. Woman-like again, the Devi declines to keep her promise,
pleading that she engaged herself to a man and not to a brute, and seeks
refuge on the banks of the river Opak. Frightened by the persecution of
Raden Bandoong, who tracks her from cave to cave, she gives untimely
birth to a daughter, the fruit of her affection for turtle-doves, and
dies. The brutal, baffled lover still haunts the neighbourhood, which
therefore native mothers-to-be scrupulously avoid, though it is not
observed that the virgins derive much instruction from the legend as far
as concerns the consequences of Devi or Mboq Loro Jonggrang’s _amours_
at an earlier stage.

