[Illustration: XXII. DETAIL OF THE _CHANDI_ SEWU

(Archaeological Service through Charls and van Es.)]

It has already been remarked that the interiors of the structures which
together form this group, are almost bare of decoration. The recesses
of the central temple, whose external ornament surpasses in luxuriance
everything met elsewhere in Java, three small interconnected apartments
projecting on the west, north and south, while the eastern front is
broken by the porch, have only empty niches[122] framed by pilasters
with flowery capitals. The inner chamber, no less soberly decorated and
stripped of the statuary it possessed, _en négligé_ as it were,

_Belle sans ornement, dans le simple appareil
D’une beauté qu’on vient d’arracher au sommeil,_

has on its western side a raised throne of ample dimensions, once
perhaps occupied by the large image without head and right hand, dug
out of the debris and carried off to the “museum” at Jogja. It still
awaits identification and the difficulty is increased by the impropriety
of speculating on the likelihood that representations of the universal
spirit were admitted in a temple built for the ritual of a creed which
acknowledges neither a god nor a soul aspiring to communion with the
divine essence in prayer, desiring nothing but annihilation. Yet the
Buddhists did learn to pray and to give transcendental ideas a tangible
expression in human shape, though they never sank to idolatry. And in
Java, mixing freely with Brahmanism, not impermeable to the Sankhya
doctrine, Buddhism seems to have swerved occasionally from its longings
for extermination in the Nirvana to entertain vague, confused notions
of something more hopeful, witness the oft repeated Banaspatis. Herein
lies, perhaps, the explanation of otherwise embarrassing peculiarities
observed in the conception, the attributes and attitudes of many
Buddhist statues in the island which, for the rest, are distinguished by
great simplicity of execution. So is the throne which extends over half
the floor of the inner room of the central temple of the _chandi_ Sewu,
and the same applies to the few headless Dhyani Buddhas lying round,
sundered from their stations where they faced the cardinal points, the
four quarters of the world, and the first of them, the very elevated,
facing the sky. A gigantic finger of bronze, found in the chapel of
the throne, supports the theory that the principal statue was of that
alloy, an additional incentive to plunder--ancient images of bronze have
become scarce indeed: the form of the cushioned pedestal in the _chandi_
Kalasan too betokens a captured metallic Tara, to the further detriment
of the domiciliary rights there claimed for the homeless Lady of Mystery
in the residency grounds at Jogja.

