Although the bulky _raksasas_ which keep her company in that place of
exile, prove that official vandalism did not hesitate to avail itself of
facilities of transportation afforded by forced labour, the uncommonly
heavy guardians of the _chandi_ Sewu balked even the absolute decrees
of local despotism. Everything desirable that could be detached and
removed, is, however, gone. Those in authority having exercised their
privilege by helping themselves, mere private individuals gleaned after
their reaping, with or without permission, and exceedingly interesting
collections of antiquities were formed by owners of neighbouring
sugar-mills. What they appropriated, did, at least, remain in the
country, but, among other sculpture, the lion-fighting elephants which
lined the fourteen staircases, ten feet high and eight feet wide, still
in place as late as 1841, cannot even be traced--they are dissolved,
battling animals, staircases and all. It is always and everywhere the
same story: statuary and ornament are stolen, treasure-seekers smash
the rest, the stones are prime building material and who cares for
the preservation of worthless, because already looted and demolished,
tumble-down temples? The monuments in the plain of Soro Gedoog have
suffered exceptional outrages; at this moment hardly anything is left
because there exists absolutely no control, says Major van Erp. His
investigations disclosed that stones taken from the _chandi_ Prambanan
and, when this was stopped, from the _chandi_ Sewu, were used for the
building of a dam in the river Opak. Had not public opinion made itself
heard, both these temples might have shared the fate of the _chandi_
Singo, once one of the finest in that region, whose gracefully decorated
walls excited the admiration of Brumund in 1845, whose substructure
with damaged ornament still held out until 1886, while now the
ground-plan cannot even be guessed at and deep holes, dug to get at the
foundations, are the only indications of the razed building’s site. To
give an idea of the quantity of material used for the dam in the river
Opak, I transcribe the measurements of its revetments: 35 metres on the
left and from 50 to 60 metres on the right bank; the facings, running
up to a height of 6 metres, make it evident beyond doubt where the
stone for that work was quarried. Neither are we quite sure that such
frightful spoliation belongs wholly to the past. The value of Government
solicitude, so eloquently paraded in circulars and colonial reports,
can be gauged from the fact, stated by Mr. L. Serrurier, that, during
officially sanctioned excavations among the ruins of the _chandis_
Plahosan and Sewu, the stones brought to the surface were simply thrown
pell-mell on a heap without their being marked as to locality and
position, quite in keeping, it should be added, with the prevailing
custom.

