Behind the horses, a mental recapitulation of the characteristics of
Hindu and Buddhist architecture in the golden age of Javanese art
will not come amiss, and there may be some wonder that with so much
veneration for the Bhagavat in friendly competition with the Jagad
Guru, nowhere in the _negri Jawa_ an imprint is shown of the blessed
foot of promise, with the deliverer’s thirty-first sign, the wheel of
the law on the sole. If, in explanation, it should be adduced that he
never travelled to those distant shores, what does that matter? Has he
been in Ceylon? And how then about the _sripada_, the record left there
as in so many other countries, with the sixty-five hints at good luck?
While we revolve such questions, our carriage rolls on; the coachman
cracks his whip, evidently proud of his skill in turning sharp corners
without reining in; the runners jump with amazing agility off and on the
foot-board and crack _their_ whips, rush to the front to encourage the
leaders of the team up steep inclines, fall again to the rear when it
goes down hill in full gallop. The exhilarating motion makes the blood
tingle in the veins. How lovely the landscape, the valley shining in the
brilliant light reflected from the mountain slopes, ...

Another turn and we dash like a whirlwind past the _kachang_-oil[126]
and _boongkil_[127] mill of Mendoot; still another turn and, with a
magnificent display of his dexterity in pulling up, our Jehu brings us
to a sudden standstill before the temple. Opposite is a mission-school
conducted for many years, with marked success, by Father P. J.
Hoevenaars, in his leisure hours an ardent student of Java’s history and
antiquities, ever ready to apply the vast amount of learning accumulated
in his comprehensive reading on a solid classical basis, to the clearing
up of disputed points, though his modesty suffered the honours of
discovery to go to the noisy players of the archaeological big drum. His
large stock of information was and is always at the disposal of whoever
may choose to avail himself of it and, writing of the _chandis_ Mendoot
and Boro Budoor, I acknowledge gratefully the benefit derived from
my intercourse with this accomplished scholar, lately transferred to
Cheribon.

