[Illustration: XXIII. _CHANDI_ MENDOOT BEFORE ITS RESTORATION

(Cephas Sr.)]

Speaking of the statuary and comparing it with Indian models, more
particularly a four-armed image, seated cross-legged on a lotus, the
stem of which is supported by two figures with seven-headed snake-hoods,
Fergusson says: The curious part of the matter is, that the Mendoot
example is so very much more refined and perfect than that at Karli.
The one seems the feeble effort of an expiring art, the Javan example
is as refined and elegant as anything in the best age of Indian
sculpture. Of the Mendoot carvings, however, more anon. I shall first
endeavour to give a general idea of this temple which, according to
the same writer, though small, is of extreme interest for the history
of Javanese architecture. Rouffaer calls it the classic model of a
central shrine with substructure and churchyard, while observing that
the principal statue of the Boro Budoor, the rest of whose statues
are turned either towards one of the cardinal points or towards the
zenith, faces the east and the Mendoot opens to the west, the two
temples therefore fronting each other. Closely observed, the latter
proved of double design since it consists of a stone outer sheath,
built round an older structure of brick, the original form with its
panellings, horizontal and perpendicular projections, having been
scrupulously followed. The neatly fitting joints, both of the hewn
stones and of the bricks of the interior filling, show a mastery of
constructive detail rarely met with at the present day and certainly
not in Java. To this wonderful technique, adding solidity to a graceful
execution of the ground-plan, belongs all the credit for the Mendoot
holding out, notwithstanding persistent ill-usage. An ecstatic thought
brightly bodied forth by a daring imagination and astonishing skill,
a charming act of devotion blossoming from the flower-decked soil as
the lotus of the good law did from the garden of wisdom and universal
love, it must have looked grandly beautiful in its profuse ornament,
which taught how to be precise without pettiness, how to attain the
utmost finish without sacrificing the ensemble to trivial elaboration.
Yet this gem of Javanese architecture seemed destined to complete
destruction. Its pitiful decay did not touch the successors of Resident
Hartman. When, in 1895, after several years’ absence from the island,
I came to renew acquaintance, it had visibly crumbled away; official
interference with “collectors” limited itself to notices, stuck up on a
bambu fence, warning them of the danger they ran from the roof falling
in. It needed two years more of demolition, the walls bulging out, the
copings tumbling down, before the correspondence, opened in 1882 anent
a desirable restoration, produced some result; before the Mendoot, the
jewelled clasp of that string of pearls, the Buddhist _chandis_ pendent
on the breast of Java from the Boro Budoor, her diamond tiara, was going
to be refitted.

