And how? It is an unpleasant tale to tell: after two decades of
consideration and reconsideration, in the fourth year of the preliminary
labours of restoration, the local representative of the Department of
Public Works, put in charge of the job as a side issue of his already
sufficiently exacting normal duties, aroused suspicions concerning his
competency in the archaeological line. An altercation with Dr. Brandes,
followed by more controversy _de viva voce_, in writing and in print,
led to compliance with his request that it might please his superiors to
relieve him from his additional and subordinate task as reconstructor
of ancient monuments. From that moment, January 2, 1901, until May 1,
1908, absolutely nothing was done and the scaffoldings erected all round
the building were suffered to rot away, symbolic of the extravagant
impecuniosity of a Government which never cares how money is wasted but
always postpones needful and urgent improvements till the Greek Kalends
on the plea of its chronic state of _kurang wang_.[129] When most of
the fl. 8600, fl. 7235, fl. 25142 and fl. 4274, successively wrung from
Parliament for excavations and restoration, had been squandered on
what Dr. Brandes considered to be bungling patchwork, the expensive,
useless scaffoldings, becoming dangerous to the passers-by in their
neglected state, necessitated the disbursement, in 1906, of fl. 350
for their removal. On the continuation of the work, in 1908, by other
hands, of course a new one, also of teak-wood, had to be erected. And,
the restoration once more being under way on the strength of fl. 6800
grudgingly allotted, Parliament decided finally that no sufficient
cause had been shown to burden the colonial budget with the sum which,
according to an estimate of 1910, was required to bring it to an end!
The profligately penurious mandarins of an exchequer exhausted by
almost limitless liberality in the matter of high bounties, subsidies,
allowances, grants for experiments which never lead to anything of
practical value; in the matter of schemes which cost millions and
millions only to prove their utter worthlessness,--the penny-wise,
pound-foolish heads refused, after an expenditure of fl. 52401 to
little purpose, to disburse fl. 21700 or even fl. 7000 more for the
completion of the work commenced, this time under guarantee of success.
Arguments advanced to make them revoke their decision, were met with the
statement that the Government did not intend to deviate from the line
of conduct, adopted after mature deliberation in regard to the ancient
monuments of Java, restricting its care to preservation of the remains
... a characteristic sample of Governmental cant in the face of grossest
carelessness and the kind of preservation inflicted on the _chandi_
Panataran or wherever its officials felt constrained by public opinion
to act upon make-believe circulars from Batavia and Buitenzorg before
pigeon-holing them. And so the perplexing inconsistencies of Dutch East
Indian finance, parsimony playing _chassez-croisez_ with boundless
prodigality, are faithfully mirrored in the tribulations of the _chandi_
Mendoot: the reauthorised work of restoration was stopped again, on the
usual progress killing plea of _kurang wang_, after the adjustment of
the first tier above the cornice, and the temple, bereft of its crowning
roof in dagob style, calculated to fix the basic conception in the
beholder’s mind, has in its stunted condition been aptly compared to a
bird of gorgeous plumage, all ruffled and with the crest-feathers pulled
out.

