[Illustration: XXIV. _CHANDI_ MENDOOT AFTER ITS RESTORATION

(Archaeological Service.)]

The operations were hampered by still other contrarieties. A tremendous
battle was waged apropos of the question whether or not gaps in the
layers of stones of the front wall above the porch pointed to the
existence of a passage or passages for the admittance of air and light
to the inner chamber; if so, whether or not those passages inclined
at an angle sufficient to let the sun’s rays illumine the head of
the principal statue in that inner chamber. To rehearse the heated
dispute is not profitable: as usual, after the _chandi_ had fallen
into ruin and an endless official correspondence had lifted its ruin
into prominence, archaeological faddists of every description tried to
acquire fame with absurd suggestions and crazy speculations. Leaving
their theories regarding the inclinations of the axes of probable or
possible transmural apertures for what they are, more instruction is to
be derived from the decorative arrangements. The inherent beauty of the
ornament survived happily the injurious effects of changing monsoons,
of ruthless robbery, of preservation in the Government sense of the
word. When the sun caresses it, the Friendly Day, under the blue vault
of the all-compassing sky, smiling at this gem of human art, offered
in conjugal obedience by the earth, which trembles at his touch, it
seems a sacrificial gift of reflowering mortality to heaven. In art,
said Lessing, the privilege of the ancients was to give no thing either
too much or too little, and the remark of the great critic, as here
we can see, applies to a wider range of classic activity than he had
in mind. Wherever the ancient artist wrought, in Greece or in Java,
we find moreover that he drew his inspiration directly from nature;
that his handiwork reflects his consciousness of the moving soul of the
world; that the secret of its imperishable charm lies pre-eminently in
his keenness of observation. To Javanese sculpture in this period may
be applied what Fergusson remarked of Hindu sculpture some thousand
years older in date: It is thoroughly original, absolutely without a
trace of foreign influence, but quite capable of expressing its ideas
and of telling its story with a distinction that never was surpassed,
at least in India. Some animals, such as elephants, deer and monkeys,
are better represented there than in any sculptures known in any part
of the world; so, too, are some trees and the architectural details are
cut with an elegance and precision which are very admirable. Turning to
the Mendoot we notice how the sculptors charged with its decoration,
always truthful and singularly accurate in the expression of their
thoughts and feelings, portrayed their surroundings in outline and
detail, wrote in bas-reliefs, ornament and statuary the history, the
ethics, the philosophy, the religion of the people they belonged to and
materialised their splendid dreams for. What conveys a better knowledge
of the Tripitaka, the Buddhist system of rules for the conduct of life,
discipline and metaphysics, than their imagery, coloured by the very
hue of kindliness and effacement of self in daily intercourse; what
inculcates better the _paramitas_, the six virtues, and charity the
first of them, than their carved mementos of the reverence we owe to
the life of all sentient creatures, our poor relations the animals,
striving on lower planes to obtain ultimate delivery from sin and pain
but no less entitled to benevolence than man?

