As in the decoration of the younger _chandis_ Panataran and Toompang,
fables occupy a prominent position in that of the _chandi_ Mendoot.
Among the twenty-two scenes spread over the nearly triangular spaces
to the right and left of the staircase which ascends to the entrance,
eleven on each side, partly lost and wholly damaged, are, for instance,
reliefs illustrative of the popular stories of the tortoise and the
geese, of the brahman, the crab, the crow and the serpents, etc. Of one
of them only a small fragment is left, representing a turtle with its
head turned upward, gazing at something in the air, whence Dr. Brandes
infers its connection with the following tale, inserted in the account
of the concerted action of the animals which conspired to kill the
elephant, as rendered in the _Tantri_, an old Javanese collection of
fables: Once upon a time there were turtles who took counsel together
about the depredations of a ravenous vulture and their _kabayan_ (chief
of the community) asked:--What do you intend to do to escape being
eaten by that bird? Accept my advice and lay him a wager that you can
cross the sea quicker than he; if he laughs at your conceit, you must
crawl into the sea where the big waves are, except two of you, one who
stays to start on the race when he begins to fly, and one who swims
across the day before and waits for him at the other side. What do you
think, turtles? You cannot lose if you manage this well.--Your advice is
excellent, answered they, and while the _kabayan_ was still instructing
them, the vulture arrived and demanded a turtle to eat.--What is your
hurry, spoke the _kabayan_ for them all; I bet you that any one of us
can swim quicker across the sea than you can fly.--I take that bet,
replied the vulture, but what shall I have if I win?--If you win,
you will be at liberty to eat me and my people and our children and
grandchildren and great-grandchildren and so on and so on to the end of
time; but you must pledge your word that if you lose, you will move from
here and seek your food elsewhere. It is now rather late but to-morrow
morning you can choose any one of my people you please to match your
swift flight with.--All right, said the vulture and he went to his nest
to sleep, but the _kabayan_ sent one of his turtle-people across the
sea. The vulture showed himself again a little after dawn, not to waste
time, for he felt pretty hungry and the sooner he could win the race,
the sooner he would have breakfast. He did not even take the precaution
to select an adversary among the decrepit and slow, so sure was he of
his superiority, and, besides, all the turtles were so much alike. The
_kabayan_ counted one, two, three, go! and the vulture heard one of
them plunge into the water and he unfolded his wings and alighted at
the other side in an instant, when, lo! there he saw the beast calmly
waiting for him. The vulture felt ashamed and moved to a distant
country for he did not know that he had been cheated. And there was only
one vulture but there were many turtles. And the boar told this event to
his friends, exactly as the reverend Basubarga saw it happen.

