[Illustration: XXV. INTERIOR OF THE _CHANDI_ MENDOOT

(Cephas Sr.)]

As we step outside, our eyes are blinded by the burning light inundating
the valley, the fiery furnace ablaze at the foot of mountains flaming up
to the sky, a terror of beauty: Think of the fire that shall consume all
creation and early seek your rescue, said the Buddha. It speaks to us of
the cataclysm which shook Java on her foundation in the waters and upset
the work of man, killing him in his thousands and burying his temples,
the Mendoot and many, many more, under the ashes of her volcanoes, some
such upheaval as when the conflict began between the Saviour of the
World and the Great Enemy, to quote from the sacred scriptures; when
the earth was convulsed, the sea uprose from its bed, the rivers turned
back to their sources, the hill-tops fell crashing to the plains; when
the day at length was darkened and a host of headless spirits rode upon
the tempest. Though the ground has also been raised by the drift down
the slopes of the Merapi, by the overflowing runnels discharging their
load of mud into the Ello and the Progo, the magnitude of volcanic
devastation can be gauged from the difference in level between the base
of the _chandi_ and the site of the _kampong_ higher up, under which the
platform extends whereon its subsidiary buildings stood. Excavations
in the detritus have already resulted in the discovery of portions
of a brick parapet once enclosing the temple grounds; of vestiges of
smaller shrines in the east corner of the terrace and of a cruciform
brick substructure to the northeast with fragments of bell-shaped
_chaityas_;[133] of a Banaspati, probably from the balustrade of the
staircase, and detached stones with and without sculptured ornament,
which revealed the former existence of several miniature temples
surrounding the central one. At the time of my last visit (which came
near terminating my career in my present earthly frame, through the
rotten scaffolding giving way under my feet when ascending to the roof),
more than half of the space conjecturally encompassed by the parapet,
still awaited exploration, and since then restoration, within the limits
of the scanty sums allowed, seems to have superseded excavation. In
connection with both, the names should be mentioned of P. H. van der
Ham, who did wonders with the little means at his disposal, and C.
den Hamer, who showed that the decoration of the Mendoot too was not
completed before the great catastrophe which devastated Central Java and
stopped architectural pursuits.[134]

