With Government bridges lacking the strength to resist the impetuosity
of more than ordinarily boisterous freshets, there may always be a
surprise in store for the pilgrim to the Boro Budoor who has arrived
at the first station, the Mendoot: will he or will he not find the
means to cross? For, in time of _banjir_, _i.e._ when the river is in
spate, the primitive ferry which maintains the communication in lieu
of better, a bambu raft or two frail barges fastened together, fails
as to both comfort and safety, and after heavy rains large groups of
men and women can often be seen waiting for the turbulent waters to
quiet down a bit. Lord Kitchener visited the Mendoot in December,
1909, during a bridgeless spell and conditions generally inauspicious
to his proceeding a mile and a half farther to the Boro Budoor.
Otherwise the being ferried over in company of gaily dressed people
going to or coming from market with fruit, garden produce and all
sorts of merchandise for sale or bought, has its compensations; rocked
by the eddying stream which glides swiftly between its steep banks,
our dominating sensation is one of joy in the splendour of unstinted
light, of freedom from the petty torments of everyday routine,--and let
worry take care of itself! As we climb the opposite shore, comes the
mysteriously grateful feeling of being enveloped in the soil’s genial
exhalation of warm contentment, the fertile earth’s response to the
passionate embrace of the sun. Their espousal, their connubial ardour
appears incorporate in the _chandi_ Dapoor,[136] a petrified spark of
universal love, a wonder of structural and decorative skill in a shady
grove some hundred paces to the right of the road.[137] And again the
_spiritus mundi_ is symbolically interpreted in the story of yond temple
betrothed and wedded to the tree. They were very much smitten with each
other, the _chandi_ Pawon and a _randu alas_[138] living in the hamlet
Brajanala. They married and the pretty comedy of affection turned into
tragedy: as chances very often in the case of a weaker and a stronger
partner in the matrimonial game, the latter throve and prospered at the
expense of the former. Now of his brothers there were and still are many
exactly like him, but of her sisters there were only few and none of
her peculiar kind of beauty, and since it seemed a pity that she should
waste her singular comeliness in supporting a husband of no particular
worth for all his bigness and parade of protecting her, a divorce was
resolved upon which meant his sentence of death. Voices in favour of
reprieve or commutation of the penalty were disregarded: what did one
_randu alas_ more or less matter compared with the preservation of the
exquisite _chandi_ Pawon, sole surviving representative of her class? So
the tree was cut down and she escaped happily the fate which overtook
the _chandis_ Perot and Pringapoos. The _chandi_ Pawon was even wholly
restored; its foundations, sapped by a tangle of roots, relaid; its roof
reconstructed.[139] In its graceful proportions a striking illustration
of the truth that a great architect can show the vast range of his art
in a very small building, may it stand many centuries longer between
Mendoot and Boro Budoor as the typical expression of Javanese thought in
Dravidian style!

