[Illustration: XXVI. THE _CHANDI_ PAWON AND THE RANDU ALAS

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

All is quiet and still in the stately avenue of _kanaris_[140] and few
wayfarers are likely to be met, except after _puasa_.[141] “Than longen
folke to gon on pilgrimages,” and the Boro Budoor attracts a goodly
crowd bent on sacrifice to the statue in the crowning dagob or to lesser
images held in special veneration. Such travelling companions, merrily
but sedately intent on devotional exercise conformable to ancestral
custom, notwithstanding Moslim doctrine, their forefathers’ imaginations
tingeing their conceptions of life seen and unseen because of their
forefathers’ blood running in their veins, increase the cheery solace
of abandon to nature, facilitate the attainment of a higher sublime
condition than reached as yet, the third Brahma Vihara improved upon by
the Buddha, joy in the joy of others while earth and vapoury atmosphere
mingle in fullness of delight,

[Illustration: XXVII. THE _CHANDI_ PAWON DIVORCED AND RESTORED

(Centrum.)]

... _in un tepor di sole occiduo
ridente a le cerulee solitudini_.[142]

We turn a corner and the road winds up a hill. That hill is the base
of the Boro Budoor, the long desired, suddenly extending his welcome,
majestic, overwhelmingly beautiful. It is a repetition on a much grander
scale, much more magical, of the effect produced by the _chandi_
Derma bursting upon our view in its sylvan frame, reality taking the
semblance of a glorious dream. In the waning light of evening the
polygonous pyramid of dark trachyte appears as a powerful vision of
the mystery of existence shining through a veil of translucent gold.
Gray cupolas, raised on jutting walls and projecting cornices, a forest
of pinnacles pointing to heaven, gilded by the setting sun, reveal
perspectives of boundless immensity, vistas of infinite distance. The
brilliancy of heaven, reflected by this mass of forceful imagery, this
conquering thought worked in solid stone, receives new lustre from the
dome-encircled fundamental idea so mightily expressed. Nowhere has
art more ably availed herself of the possibilities of site and more
felicitously combined with natural scenery, created a more harmonious
ensemble than in the amazingly original design and delicate execution of
this puissant temple, this gift of the Javanese Buddhists to posterity,
a source of spiritual quickening to whoso tries to understand.

