The _pasangrahan’s_ guests of that ilk are generally no early risers and
their company is therefore not likely to mar the impression received
of the Boro Budoor at second sight after supper, supplied by the army
pensioner in charge of the place, and a night’s sound rest. Looking
tranquillity itself, the vast pile charms and soothes the heart,
notwithstanding its enormous size, before the intellect, scrutinising
its outline, begins to marvel at the unaccustomed form the builder has
chosen to proclaim his idea. Save one or two temples in _hinayanistic_
Burmah, which present a faint resemblance, nothing else can be named as
producing the same effect, but then, wrote Fergusson for the land where
the creed was born that inspired its founder, it must be remembered that
not a single structural Buddhist building now exists within the cave
region of Western India. Rising light and airy for all its grandeur, it
expresses more strength than a mere massing together of the ponderous
material in huge walls and buttresses and towers could have done; its
quiet consciousness of power is enhanced by its strange beauty of
contour in perfect harmony with its setting of living colour. There it
lies, clasping together the sapphire sky and the emerald garden of Java.

The _mahayanistic_ character of the Boro Budoor is well attested by
the Dhyani Buddhas among its statuary, despite the opinion of Siamese
connoisseurs, and by its further ornamental sculpture, of which more
anon. Meant for a reliquary, it may or may not be, in the absence of
historical proof pro or contra, one of the 84,000 _stupas_ consecrated
to receive and hold a fractional portion of the Indian Saviour’s remains
after King Asoka had opened seven of the depositories of his ashes in
the eight towns among which his remains were originally divided, to
make the whole world share in their blessed possession. Who has not
heard of the transfer, in the ninth year of the reign of Sirimeghavanna,
A.D. 310, of the Dathadathu, the holy tooth, from Dantapura to Ceylon,
where it became the _mascotte_, so to speak, the pledge of undisturbed
dominion to the rulers of the island who should control its guardians.
The sacrosanct yellow piece of dentin, about the length of the little
finger,[144] enclosed in nine concentric cases of gold, inlaid with
diamonds, rubies and pearls, is but rarely shown, far more rarely than
even the seamless coat at Treves, and then under conditions of excessive
adoration. But, notwithstanding all this pomp and circumstance, who that
has visited the Dalada Malagawa at Kandy and the Boro Budoor in Java,
can fail to prefer the latter, though sacrilegious robbers have carried
off its relic, leaving the desecrated shrine to decay.

