The Boro Budoor was never hidden from view to the point of blotting
out its existence from memory. I shall have occasion to refer to
native chronicles mentioning it in the eighteenth century. To speak
of its rediscovery by Cornelius is therefore inaccurate though we owe
to that clever Lieutenant of Engineers, purposely sent to the Kadu by
Raffles, in 1814, the first scientific survey and description with
elucidating drawings. Except for the publication, in 1873, of Dr. C.
Leemans’ book with an atlas containing illustrations after drawings
by F. C. Wilsen, and the mission of I. van Kinsbergen to obtain
photographic reproductions of the reliefs, the Dutch Government left the
matchless temple entirely to its fate until very recently. An official
correspondence, kept trailing indefinitely to invest ministerial
promises regarding the antiquities of Java with a semblance of
sincerity, had the usual negative effect. Whenever a colonial Excellency
declared with unctuous pomposity that the most conscientious care would
be taken of the Boro Budoor, a monument of incalculable value considered
from the standpoint of science and art, most brilliant memento of the
island’s historic past, etc., etc., those versed in the phraseology
of Plein and Binnenhof at the Hague trembled in expectation of bad
news of criminal negligence, theft and mutilation to follow. The later
history of the “brilliant memento” agrees but too well with the ominous
prognostics derived from such dismal parliamentary fustian. A great
poet sang of things of beauty scarce visible from extreme loveliness:
the readily movable things of beauty constituting the loveliness of the
Boro Budoor, became invisible _sans phrase_. We are told in legendary
lore of statues which flew through the air to take domicile at enormous
distances from their proper homes, or vanished altogether, dissolving
into space: the statues of the Boro Budoor developed that faculty in an
astonishing degree; if handicapped by great weight or solid attachment
to the main structure, bent on travelling _à tout travers_, they sent
their heads alone to seek recreation and instruction in the varying ways
of the world, and their heads did never return, either because they
were amusing themselves too jollily away from the austerities of the
eight-fold path or because they found themselves unavoidably detained in
durance vile.

