[Illustration: XXVIII. BASE OF THE BORO BUDOOR SHOWING THE (FILLED UP)
LOWEST GALLERY

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

The Boro Budoor being undermined and gradually scattered to the four
winds, it was but natural that the natives, following the example set
by the elect, even by the elect of the elect acting in this or that
official capacity, who used, for instance, _chandi_ stones for the
flooring of the Government _pasangrahan_,--that the inhabitants of the
neighbouring _kampongs_ should carry off what appeared suitable for
their own ends, and the least heavy _jataka_ reliefs claimed their first
attention. So things went from bad to worse and the most disastrous
year, a veritable _annus calamitatis_ for the Boro Budoor, arrived with
1896, when the late King of Siam paid his second visit to Java. Much
interested, as was to be expected of a ruler of a Buddhist country,
in the Buddhist monuments of the island, so interested, in fact, that
his Majesty tried to put the _mahayanistic_ temples of the Kadu to the
credit of his own, the _hinayanistic_ church, his endeavours in this
kind of mental annexation inspired authorities, eager to share in the
honours of Siamese Knighthood (White Elephant, Crown of Siam, etc.)
distributed with right royal generosity, to urge him to annexation
in deed. If foreign visitors of little account had been permitted to
help themselves in a small way to “souvenirs” for a consideration to
keepers’ underlings left without control, why should foreign visitors
of distinction not be served wholesale? His Majesty Chulalongkorn, to
whom no blame attaches for gratifying his desire where he found Dutch
functionaries, high and low, more than willing to oblige, was invited to
make his choice and we must still thank him for his moderation, which
limited the quantity of sculpture selected to eight cart-loads: there is
scarcely a doubt that if he had requested them to pull part of the Boro
Budoor down in consideration of Knight Commander- or Grand Masterships
in this or that Order, the official conscience would have raised no
objection. This came to pass, of course, after a more than usually
fine flow, at the Hague, of ministerial rhetoric anent the priceless
heritage Holland has to protect in the “brilliant mementos of Java’s
historic past,” and the lover of ancient Buddhist architecture who wants
to make a study of its acknowledged masterpiece, must now of necessity
travel on to the banks of the Meynam to get an idea of some of its
most characteristic imagery, not to speak of fragments of ornament and
statuary removed by tourists of commoner complexion and dispersed heaven
knows where.

