[Illustration: XXIX. DETAIL OF THE BORO BUDOOR

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

This instance of the ancient monuments of Java being officially
despoiled to please crowned heads and other visitors in exalted
stations, _pour le bon motif_, seemed so incredible that, when
I censured it in the Dutch East Indian Press, the Dutch Press,
over-zealous in hiding colonial enormities, also _pour le bon motif_,
considered it an easy task to deny, waxing eloquently indignant at the
denunciation until in regular, normal sequence, always observable
in the perennial case of Dutch whitewashing versus colonial boldness
of speech, the correctness of the statement could no longer be
assailed, new evidence accumulating steadily, Mr. J. A. N. Patijn,
for one, describing, in the _Kroniek_ and the _Tijdschrift voor
Nederlandsch Indië_, a collection displayed near the Wat Pra Keo at
Bangkok and brought thither from Java in 1896.[152] The frolicking
monkeys doubtless, the people of the large cheek-bones, represented
on some reliefs thus transferred, prompted an enthusiastic, genuine
archaeologist’s imprecation on the heads of the guilty official
and non-official toadies, inasmuch as he wished them, if there be
anything in the dogma of Karma, which provides for our sins being
visited on us in lives to come, that their least punishment might be
their transformation, when called to new birth, into apes abandoned
to ceaseless squabbles over their _kanari_-nuts (honours, dignities,
preferment with big salaries, fat pensions, etc.), clawing one another
with their sharp nails, to find at last that all the shells are
empty. Desisting from a profitless discussion on the possibilities of
retribution in a future existence, it requires to be stated that the
official mind needed several years’ reflection in this before reaching
the conclusion that really, in the matter of the conservation of the
Boro Budoor something more was wanted than the periodical outbursts of
gushing sentiment, grossly disregarded in practice, which are _le moyen
de parvenir_ of Dutch colonial politicians. The independents of the
colonial Press, however, had at last the satisfaction that Captain T.
van Erp of the Engineers was detailed to take the work of restoration in
hand, building himself a house in the shadow of the _chandi_ confided to
his care, anxious to direct the necessary labours on the spot. Stationed
there since August, 1907, his promotion to the rank of Major fortunately
did not result in the withdrawal of his services from the archaeological
field and, the climax of laxness with regard to the Boro Budoor having
been capped in the Siamese episode, brighter days may dawn for that
venerable edifice.

