[Illustration: XXXII. DETAIL OF THE BORO BUDOOR

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

If Ruskin compared St. Mark’s at Venice so aptly with a vast illuminated
missal, bound with alabaster instead of parchment, studded with porphyry
pillars instead of jewels, and written within and without in letters of
enamel and gold, in the Boro Budoor, a sacred book of volcanic stone,
the life of the Buddha, before and after he became a son of man and
man’s saviour, lies opened before us: the flowery earth and the shining
heaven are its binding; Surya, the sun himself, gilds and enamels the
letters, the images which, in their sculptured frame, not too deeply
cut and not too rich for a setting, but precisely adequate, tell to all
creatures the story of wisdom and elevation of spirit. The illustration
of the _Lalita Vistara_ occupies, as already mentioned, the upper tier
of the inner wall of the first open gallery. Walking round in the proper
direction, _i.e._ keeping the dagob to the right while moving with the
sun, we have first a few introductory scenes, leading up to the Buddha’s
advent and preparing us for the mystic teachings of an imagery which
expands simply and naturally between the flowing lines of harmonious
ornament and speaks to the heart as does the sound of running water or
the soughing of the wind in the tree-tops. Immediately after his birth,
rising from the white lotus-flower which has sprung from the earth at
the place touched by his feet, Siddhartha, in token of his power over
the several worlds, paces seven steps to each of the cardinal points
and to the abode of sin, announcing his mission: I shall conquer the
Prince of Darkness and the army of the Prince of Darkness; to save those
plunged into hell, I shall cause rain to descend from the huge cloud
of the law and they will be filled with joy and happiness. He grows
and marries and leaves his father’s palace, moved by the misery of the
lowly and lost, to gather knowledge as Sakyamuni, until, compassing
all wisdom, he becomes impersonated truth and the great renunciation
takes place. The closing scene refers to his death, to the adoration of
the mortal remains of the immortal Tathagata, symbolising his course
among men not as a succession of past acts but as a constant one to
be imitated by whoso desires the reward. Increasing in excellence of
design and execution the nearer we approach the Holy of Holies, the
touching tale of a life of sacrifice is told with that straightforward
simplicity of which only the consummate artist possesses the secret.
All appears so human and real, so inspiringly animated by the extreme
of vital motion, to use an oriental expression, the individuality of
the figures being always preserved in minutest personal detail without
the least affectation. Plastic triumphs, emphasising the lessons of the
sacred books, bring up unto us the people of _jaman buda_, heroes tall
and strong as palm-trees, virgins lithe and slender as bambu-stems,
with drooping eyes, shrinking from a too inquisitive gaze, with limbs
modelled as if they would tremble under the pressure of a caressing
hand.

