[Illustration: XXXIII. DETAIL OF THE BORO BUDOOR

(C. Nieuwenhuis.)]

The statues, watching the ascent of the seeker of purification, second
the impulse received from the reliefs by their tranquil composure,
that is in so far as they remained at their stations, for their ranks
are sadly thinned. Aspiring to the holiness figured in the images of
the higher terraces, to the priceless boon of the Nirvana as final
blessing, the Dhyani Buddhas, sunk in meditation, girding themselves
with virtue, longing for the ecstasies vouchsafed to the Adi-Buddha’s
meditation, reflect the five salient features of his understanding, as
indicated by their gestures. Divided into three or twice three groups,
according to the position of their hands, and in intimate relationship
with their Bodhisatvas, Vajrochana, Akshobhya and Ratnasambhava are
supposed to have swayed, during thousands of years, the three worlds
which successively disappeared, as Amitabha, whose Bodhisatva is
Padmapani, sways since twenty-four centuries the present world, in
closest spiritual union with the historical Buddha, to be succeeded
by Amoghasiddha, whose Bodhisatva is Vishvapani, the ultimate Buddha,
the Buddha of universal love. Facing the four cardinal points and
the zenith, they sit with crossed legs,[154] clothed in a thin robe
which leaves the right shoulder and arm bare, and have the distinctive
protuberance of the skull, generally also the _oorna_, the symbol of
light, be it then produced by the sun or by lightning. A sixth Buddha,
represented by the statues of the fifth and highest wall, is supposed
to refer to a power which dominates the other five, swaying in last
resort the destinies of all worlds without exception; but this theory
still needs confirmation. The statues of the circular terraces stood, or
rather sat, in bell-shaped _chaityas_, four to five feet high, capped
with tapering key-stones which carry conical pinnacles--no _lingas_,
though this oft recurring motive of Hindu decoration may have suggested
the idea. These _chaityas_, 72 in number[155] and for the greater part
in ruin, shattered shells of sanctity, were closed all round and the
images inside, without aureoles, like the Buddhas lower down, only
visible through openings in the form of lozenges. Their peculiar contour
has led to the conjecture that they were constructed after the holy
_padma_ or lotus-flower, a hypothesis to which their _padmasana_-like
bases and the numerous peepholes, which might figurate empty seed-lobes,
lend some colour. Of the 72 Buddhas they protected, eighteen are wholly
lost and no more than ten escaped grievous hurt.

