_Whose goodly workmanship far past all other,
That ever were on earth, all were they set together._

His name is unknown, though native fancy, descrying his likeness in the
profile of the Minoreh mountains, a fine conceit worthy of his genius,
has baptised him Kiahi Guna Darma. Another tradition calls him Kiahi
Oondagi and makes him chisel the statue which, up to the time of the
late King of Siam’s visit in 1896, stood near the _pasangrahan_, facing
a damaged Amitabha and seemingly heartening the diminishing ranks of the
lions mounting guard. It had been brought thither from a place known
as Topog, about a mile distant, and was certainly a portrait-statue,
beautifully cut and with its extraordinarily clever features a rare
work of art. The story goes that, like Busketus, the architect (with
Rainaldus) of the Duomo at Pisa, his dearest wish was to have his
remains carried to rest under the stones of the edifice he had raised to
the honour of the unseen; that, baffled in his hopes and reincarnated
after his death because of some venial offence which made him fail in
attaining the Nirvana too, he fashioned this effigy to be set up at
the entrance of his _magnum opus_, anticipating an idea of the equally
nameless artist who put the Byzantine stamp on San Marco in Venice. It
is an additional proof of the late King Chulalongkorn’s discrimination
in favour of the very best that, making the permitted choice, his
Majesty included Kiahi Oondagi, but O! the official cringing and the
little piety shown to the memory of the illustrious labourer who wrought
this wonderful monument.

[Illustration: XXXVI. ASCENDING THE BORO BUDOOR

(Cephas Sr.)]

On the hillock of Topog, the _deva agoong’s_ primitive home, two
wash-basins in the form of _yonis_, one of them of colossal dimensions
and resting on a crouched figure, testify to the worship of Siva’s
_sakti_, the female principle of life personified in the Mahadeva’s
Devi. Hindu motives in the ornament of the Boro Budoor avouch syncretism
having influenced the highest expression of Buddhism itself: there is
a four-armed image with _padmasana_ and _prabha_, which, carrying a
Buddha in its _makuta_, may hint at Vishnu’s ninth _avatar_; there is a
four-armed figure seated on a throne supported by Siva’s _vahana_, the
bull; there is a goddess crowned with five _trishulas_; etc. All this
illustrates again native tolerance in matters of religion as in other
respects, a result of the ancient habit of the Javanese in particular,
to meet widely different races and civilisations half-way, which has
preserved them from the narrow-mindedness consequent on isolation, as
observed by a scholar who knows them well and whose study of special
subjects has in nowise impaired his breadth of vision.[159] The
modification of this easy-going temperament in contact with western
greed, offers abundant food for thought when we return to the cool
cave of refuge from passion where the _recho belèq_ symbolises deep
contemplation and meditation terminating in absorption of self by
participation of the Spirit of the Universe, under the gaudy memorial
tablet, _Koning van Siam: 1896_, which, in its glaring incongruity,
symbolises the inverted process.[160] The feeling of annoyance it
produces, soon passes when the mind begins to expand with admiration of
the scene of calm splendour beheld from the dagob containing the pollen
of the lotus of the law. The hues and harmonies of evening dispose to a
quietude nowhere else experienced or enjoyed in that measure. The only
sound heard is a faint humming of insects circling the pinnacles of the
_chaityas_ which divide the panorama of the plain below into views of
separate interest and beauty, bounded by the graceful outline of the
terraces and the distant hills. Ricefields and palmgroves stretch as
far as the eye can reach, with villages between, sheltered by their
orchards, earth’s tapestry, embroidered in all gradations of green from
that of the sprouting _bibit padi_ of the young plantations to that of
the thick foliage of centenarian _kanaris_. The shadow of the temple,
kissing the drowsy eyelids of the Kadu, lengthens towards the Merapi
over whose crater, gilt by the setting sun, hangs a cloud of dark smoke
which drifts slowly in the direction of the Merbabu, while the Soombing,
to the northeast, looks tranquilly on. The darkness, ushered by the
smoke of the ill-tempered old fire-mountain, mingling with the pink and
purple of the western sky, spreads over the land, envelops forests and
gardens in gray, hushing all that breathes to sleep. One parting smile
of the sun’s gladness and night descends in her sable robes. Nothing
stirs; the toils of day are forgotten in wholesome repose; it is the
hour of Amitabha, ruler of the region of sunset and spiritual father
of the present world’s ruler, the one whose hands rest in his lap
after the completion of a laborious task. Morning will come and in time
the creation of a new world, the world of loving-kindness, Vishvapani’s,
the Metteya Buddha’s own--in time, long time! A _gardu_[161] strikes
seven; another answers immediately with eight strokes on the
_beloq_;[161] far away no more than six respond,--what is time to the
native! Silence reigns again, silence emphasised by the high-pitched
notes of a _suling_,[162] quavering indistinctly as the evening breeze
speeds the lover’s complaint or refuses its aid. A noise of revelry in
the _pasangrahan_ distracts the attention from this tuneful courtship;
the visionary beings that were taking life from the germ of thought
hidden in its shrine, petrify into mute statues or vanish altogether:
the spell of the Boro Budoor is broken.

