It is clear, says Dr. Brandes, that at the time referred to in this
second record, the Boro Budoor was something more to the natives than
simply a hill; they knew of the building with the thousand statues--a
round number like that of the _chandi_ Sewu, the “thousand temples”--and
they knew of the images in the bell-shaped _chaityas_ on the circular
terraces. And though any one of those 72 statues or even the principal
statue in the central dagob may have been meant, in which last case,
however, another expression than _kuroongan_ (cage) would appear more
appropriate, we think involuntarily of the Sang Bimo or Kaki Bimo
so-called, a statue of the Buddha promoted or degraded by popular
superstition to the rank of a Pandawa, Arjuno’s chivalrous brother,
seated in the _chaitya_ of the lowest circular terrace, next to and
south of the eastern staircase, still venerated by the natives, by the
Chinese community and by more women and men of European extraction than
are willing to confess it. Bimo or Wergodoro, to use the name given to
him in the _wayang lakons_ when they extol his youthful exploits, is
the archetype of the _satrya_, the pattern of ancestral knighthood.
Most probably it was Sang Bimo who, conformably to the _ilaila_ or
ancient prediction, executed the decree of fate on Pangeran Adipati
Hamangkunagara. Disregarding the example set by the invisible power
which resides in the Boro Budoor, a later Crown Prince of Jogjakarta
visited that temple in 1900 without, so far, coming to grief. Has then
the _ilaila_ under special consideration lost its efficacy? We must
presume so, notwithstanding that the occult forces identified with Sang
Bimo and other statues of the ancient fane, are affirmed still to work
miracles in plenty when propitiated by adequate sacrifice.

[Illustration: XXXVIII. ASCENDING TO THE DAGOB OF THE BORO BUDOOR

(Cephas Sr.)]

The greatest miracle of all is the elation of man’s thought by the
irresistible charm which goes out from it. A night with the Boro Budoor
is a night of purification, when Amitabha offers the lotus of the good
law and the gift is accepted; when the wonderful edifice, rising to
the star-spangled sky, unfolds terrace after terrace and gallery
after gallery between the domed and pinnacled walls, as his flower of
ecstatic meditation spreads its petals, opens its heart of beauty to the
fructifying touch of heaven; when tranquil love descends in waves of
contentment, unspeakable satisfaction. The dagob loses its sharp, bold
outline and melts into boundless space, a vision of fading existence in
consummation of wisdom. A mysterious voice, proceeding from the shrine,
urges to search out the secret it hides. The summons cannot be resisted
and going up, trusting to the murky night, mounting the steps to the
first gate as in a somnambulistic trance, the seeker of enlightenment
discerns the path, guided by his quickened perception when the voice
dies of its own sweetness, the fragrant stillness appeasing the mind and
extending promise of pity for passion and fleshly desire, the garment
of sin left behind. Surely, it was the supreme wisdom, forgiving all
things because it understands, which inspired a human intellect to
devise, directed human hands to achieve in the delineation of mercy such
powerful architectural unity, sustained by such sublimely beauteous
ornament. Aided from above, the spirituality of the builder, creating
this masterpiece, needed not the laborious tricks passed off on us in
our days of feverish _effect-hascherei_ by artists who dispense with
the rudiments of their art to strive after the sensational. Neither
was his originality of the cheap kind which tries to cloak crass
technical ignorance and hopeless general ineptitude with paltry though
pretentious artifices, displaying a deplorable lack of the conceptive
faculty into the bargain. Proclaiming the doctrine glorious in veracity
of thought and utterance, the Boro Budoor typifies honest endeavour and
sincerity of purpose.

