The rudely interrupted sleep of the _recho bèlèt_ formulated,
intentionally or not, a confession of faith in the reward of
righteousness by complete dissolution, cessation of continuance, eternal
rest undisturbed by gods or men, by feeling or thought. The pilgrim
to the Boro Budoor, longing for the _arahat_ship, accomplished in the
science of conducting himself, must have hesitated before ascending to
the highest terrace and seeking direct communion with the pure spirit
of the son of virtue, born of a woman truly, but whose mother died
seven days after his birth, in token of his eminence; the venerable one
whose moral strength stands paramount, overcometh even the innate fear
of extinction. The essence of the Triratna lies here within the grasp
of the earnest inquirer, the precious pearl whose lustre divulges the
principle of causation, the beginning and the end of all things, the
primary source of what is and shall be. How to obtain it? By offerings
to the symbolic stone? Not so, but by good works and self-examination
which excels prayer and makes any place a Bodhimanda, a seat of
intelligence. The Buddha was a man, no god surpassing the limits of
humanity, who has to be propitiated by adoration. Whoso wishes the
Rescuer’s saving grace, should remember the story of Upagoopta and the
courtesan Vasavadatta, and ask: Has my hour arrived?[169] Penance for
errors committed, not by fasting and self-torture, but by persevering
in the eight-fold path of right views, right aspirations, right speech,
right behaviour, right search of sustenance, right effort, right
mindfulness of our fellow-creatures, right exultation, should ward off
the dire punishment of remorse which in well-balanced spirits cannot
dwell. Self-restraint, uprightness, control of the organs of sense,
makes the fell fire of the three deadly sins--sensuality, ill-will and
moral sluggishness--die out in the heart by a proper arrangement of
the precious vestments, the six cardinal virtues: charity, cleanness,
patience, courage, contemplative sympathy with all creation and
discrimination of good and evil. This leads to perfection, advancement
to the highest of the four sublime conditions, the Brahma Viharas on
which Buddhism improved by making equanimity with regard to one’s own
joys and sorrows the test of progress on the road which leads to bliss
in extermination of pain. Loosen the shackles of worldly existence by
constant application to escape from the fatal thraldom imposed by birth
and rebirth! Life is continued misery; no salvation from the distress
caused by passion and sin is possible except by cessation of self, by
merging individual in universal vacancy, mounting the four steps of the
Dhyana in contemplative evolution of the Nirvana, refining perception
and speculation to total impassibility, extinguishing reason itself in
eternal voidness, where we have nothing to fear and nothing to hope
for, taking refuge in non-existence, the only conceivable verity.

