And, like Gautama, each one who strives for enfranchisement, must have
his struggle with Mara, the Prince of Darkness. After the first watch
on the Boro Budoor, night thickens and covers the earth as a pall; the
wan stars glimmer weakly, shining on the misery of deficient fulfilment
of intention. Reflecting on our errors of commission and omission,
seeing our deeds laid bare and their why and wherefore, dejection
masters hope, though steadfast determination might take an example at
the Buddha wrestling with the Enemy, who offered him the kingdom of
the four worlds; though we know that the giving or withholding of the
fifth, the world of glory, is beyond the Enemy’s power. We see the
contest re-enacted before us and tremble. Appearing bodily, horrible to
behold, Mara, the god of carnal love, passion and sin, Papiyan, the very
vicious, besets the incarnate word, surrounded by his demons of ever
changing gruesome aspect, barking dogs with enormous fangs and lolling
tongues; roaring tigers with sharp, murderous claws and bloodshot eyes;
hissing serpents, darting forward to strike and crush their prey. While
we fancy the contest raging hottest round valiant patience, personified
in the image of the dagob, the maimed statues of the _chaityas_ and
lower niches join in the dire battle as the headless spirits that rode
upon the tempest when Evil assailed the elect’s purity. Papiyan cannot
prevail and seeing the futility of violence, he has recourse to his
daughters, the winsome _apsaras_, who dance and provoke to lascivious
commerce by their seductive arts. But they make no more impression than
their brutish brothers and, in spite of themselves, they are compelled
to praise the fortitude of a virtue which will not succumb even when
one of them assumes the shape of a beloved youthful spouse. The baffled
_apsaras_ dissolve in floating vapour, and Papiyan, in despair, traces
flaming characters on the dome of the dagob with his last arrow: My
empire is ended. The stars resume their brightness and a sense of coming
light pervades the gloom of despondency. It is borne toward us in the
flower tendered by Chandra, the deity of the chaste radiance proceeding
from the conqueror’s crest. Lo, his crown is transferred to the sky and,
climbing slowly, the cusped moon invests the moulders of past and future
worlds with halos of liquid silver.

