This is the time, the stilly hour before dawn, the last watch before
morning, the chosen moment of the Buddha’s attainment to the summit
of the triple science, wherein the supernatural beauty of the Boro
Budoor, cleansed and reconsecrated after the white man’s profanation,
by the burning fire of day and the mellow touch of night, helps us to
penetrate the meaning of his promise. He who holds fast to the law and
discipline and faints not, he shall cross the ocean of life and make an
end of sorrow. The blitheness of spirit which consists, because of that
whereby the sun riseth and setteth, and the moon waxeth and waneth, in
discarding the ignorance engendered by conceding to this world a reality
it does not possess, regarding as constant that which changes with
every wind that blows,--the exaltation born from silent contemplation,
loses its vagueness in the manifestation of the godhead in ourselves.
For contemplation becomes seeded and blooms in the triad of meditation,
the recognition of the entities of time and space, and connecting
thought as the unity of universal relationship. The Dhyani Buddhas,
wrapped in the shadows from which dawn will deliver them, seek to
comprehend, and our mentality expanding with theirs, looking down upon
the gray waves of mist that break on the old temple as on a rock of ages
in a stormy sea, we feel the dagob rise to meet the moonbeams and soar
to unutterable delight. Presently the first smile of day salutes and
awakens mother earth; a murmur of contentment thrills the air in harmony
of praise: the dimming, quivering stars, the crimson mountain-tops,
the purple and azure perspective between, all creation combines in a
song of thanksgiving. The mystic planetary music, the singing together
of earth and heaven in melody of colour and sound, welcomes the bright
morning. Dawn, with blushing face and heart of gold, bewrays the glory
of her eternal abode to the world of man, sending her outriders before,
the Asvins, the lords of lustre, whose shining armour, forged of the
sun’s rays, illumines the pearly sky with dazzling splendour. They roll
the billowy vapours together and chase them up the hill-side “like wool
of divers changing colours carded,” that the eye of the life-giver may
rest on the plain where the palm-groves rise in the hazy dew as emerald
islands in an opalescent lake. The Merbabu and the Soombing are still
half in darkness when the Merapi, flecked with orange and violet, blazes
in reflection of aërial effulgence, soon to commingle the smoke of its
fiery crater with the clouds mounting its slopes. The fire-mountains
keep a good watch on the garden of Java, than which Jatawana, the famous
pleasance where the Buddha enounced the substance of his teachings
preserved in the Sutras, cannot have been more delicious; and the Merapi
in particular makes the land pass under the rod when sacred covenants
are broken.

