[Illustration: XL. THE DAGOB OF THE BORO BUDOOR AFTER ITS RESTORATION

(Archaeological Service.)]

The heart too is illuminated as thoughts take their hues from the skies,
knowledge clearing up the anarchy of conflicting creeds which exercised
and exercise their sway over Java. Brahmanic terrorism and Buddhist
despondency, Moslim fanaticism and Christian dissensions vanish before
her unsophisticated children’s delight in life for its own sake, as the
morning dew before the warmth of the sun. Twining memories of the _jaman
buda_ with current happenings, they take their spiritual nourishment
directly from nature and the symbolic form of their natural religion
from everywhere. Without troubling about erudite dissertations regarding
the legend of the Buddha as the development of an ancient solar myth,
or Buddhism as a development of the Sankhya system of Kapila; without
going into abstruse speculations anent the evolution of the universe
from primordial matter, they are in constant intercourse with the
surrounding worlds, seen and unseen. The virile Surya, impregnating
air and earth, unfailing source of plenty, enters deep into their
metaphysics as the cosmic pivot of faith. When high-born dawn rouses
the tillers of the soil to go forth to their work and the eye of day
showers benediction, the solar word, spoken from the eternal throne and
descending on wings of happiness, the living word, is found emblazoned
on the sea of light which floods the Kadu just as the fertilising water
of the mountain-rills floods the _sawahs_;[170] is found embodied in
that superb temple, the Boro Budoor, whose soul, the soul of humanity
in communion with the all-soul, is the soul of Java. Adorned with that
priceless jewel of sanctity, the plain lifts its sensuous loveliness to
heaven as the bride meets the caresses of her wedded spouse, trembling
with love. They obey the divine law which bids them follow nature in
drinking the _amrita_, gaining immortality like the gods in creation
of life, which may change, yet never dies, aging but reviving, the
mystery of the Trimoorti. Clothed with the resplendent atmosphere,
touched by the beams of the rising sun, its effulgent dagob a mountain
of gold, the Boro Budoor bursts out in the bloom of excellence, not the
sepulchre of a discarded religion, of a fallen nation’s dreams, but a
token of the germinal truth of all religion, a prophetic expression of
things to be. The tide of destiny runs not always in the same channel
and there is promise in the joy of day, promise of a slaking of the
thirst for freedom, an abatement of the fever engendered by doubt of
enfranchisement always deferred. If hope endures in the battle with
darkness, patient fortitude will lead to victory. It baulked the power
of Mara and blunted the weapons of the demons who assailed the Buddha
and turned aside the missiles which did not harm him but changed into
flowers before his feet, into garlands suspended over his head. When
knowledge shall cover the world at the advent of Vishvapani, deceit and
avarice will cease tormenting and glad content will dwell in the _negri
jawa_ for ever.

