Vasavadatta thought that Upagoopta refused because he could not afford
to pay the high price she demanded for her favours, and she bade her
maid tell him that she did not intend to charge him a single cowry if
only he would come. But Upagoopta replied in the same words:--My sister,
the hour has not yet arrived.

Shortly after, the courtesan Vasavadatta, annoyed by the jealousy of
one of her lovers, who objected to her selling herself to a wealthy old
voluptuary, ordered her servants to kill the troublesome fellow. They
did so without taking sufficient precautions against discovery; the
crime became known and the King of Mathura commanded the executioner to
cut off her hands, feet and nose, and abandon her thus mutilated among
the graves of the dead.

Upagoopta hearing of it, said to himself: When she was arrayed in fine
clothes and no jewels were rare and costly enough to adorn her body,
it was a counsel of wisdom for those who aspire to liberation from the
bondage of sin to avoid her; with her beauty, however, she has certainly
lost her pride and lustfulness, and this is the hour.

Accordingly, Upagoopta went up to the cemetery where the executioner
had left Vasavadatta maimed and disfigured. The maid, having remained
faithful, saw him approach and informed her mistress who, in a last
effort at coquetterie, told her to cover the hideous wounds with a piece
of cloth. Then, bowing her head before her visitor, Vasavadatta spoke:

--My master, when my body was sweet as a flower, clothed in rich
garments and decked with pearls and rubies; when I was goodly to behold,
you made me unhappy by refusing to meet me. Why do you come now to look
at one from whom all charm and pleasure has fled, a frightful wreck,
soiled with blood and filth?

--My sister, answered Upagoopta, the attraction of your charms and the
love of the pleasures they held out, could not move me; but the delights
of this world having revealed their hollowness, here I am to bring the
consolation of the lotus of the law.

