If you look at a map of Borneo you will see that the Equator divides the
island into two parts, so that Borneo is right in the middle of the
Torrid Zone. The climate is therefore tropical, that is to say there is
no spring, autumn or winter, but only summer, and it is always much
hotter in Borneo than it is in the hottest summer in England. So, if an
English boy went to live in Borneo, he would find his English clothes
too thick and warm for him to wear there, and he would have to have thin
cotton garments.

Most of the country of Borneo is covered with thick jungle, where large
forest trees grow close to each other, many of them with trunks over six
feet in diameter. These trees are often loaded with creepers and ferns,
and from the branches, high up overhead, beautiful orchids hang.

The natives of Borneo are called Dyaks, and these tropical jungles are
their home. Let me try and describe to you what these people are like.
They are not black like negroes, but have a brown skin. They are not as
tall as Englishmen, but are slightly bigger than the Malays. The Dyak
men and women wear very little clothing because of the great heat. The
Dyak men wear a waistcloth which is made either of the soft inner bark
of a tree, or else of cotton cloth. It is about one yard wide, and from
eight to eighteen feet in length, and is twisted round and round their
waists and pulled up tight between the thighs, one end hanging down in
front and the other behind. Dyak women wear a short petticoat which is
drawn tightly round the waist and reaches down to the knees. Round their
bodies the women wear hoops of rattan, a kind of cane, and these are
threaded through small brass rings placed so close together as to hide
the rattan. Both men and women wear necklaces, bracelets, and ear-rings.
The men wear their hair long, and they blacken their teeth and often
file them to a point, or bore holes in them and insert brass studs into
them.

Let me tell you something of the kind of life the Dyaks used to live in
the old days. You have heard of the head-hunters of Borneo. Seventy
years ago the Dyaks were one of the most savage and cruel people in the
world. In those days there was constant warfare between the different
tribes. The Dyaks therefore lived together in large numbers in long
village houses, and round these houses they built strong stockades, as a
defence against any sudden attack.

