When Sir James Brooke was in England in 1847, he appealed to the two
Universities of Oxford and Cambridge and also to the two great
Missionary Societies--the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in
Foreign Parts, and the Church Missionary Society--to help him, but none
of them were able to do so as they had not the funds. So a new
Association, chiefly supported by his friends, was started, called the
"Borneo Church Mission." This Association sent out a few missionaries,
the first of whom was the Rev. F. T. McDougall, who was consecrated the
first Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak in 1855.

After a few years the Borneo Church Mission flagged for lack of support,
and in 1854 the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign
Parts came to the rescue, and took up the work, and has ever since been
responsible for the Mission Work in Borneo. My father, the Rev. W. H.
Gomes, B.D., worked under Bishop McDougall as a missionary among the
Dyaks of Lundu from 1852 to 1867, and I myself have worked, under Bishop
Hose, as a missionary in Sarawak for seventeen years.

When McDougall arrived at Kuching, the capital of Sarawak, in 1848, the
Rajah welcomed him kindly, and gave him a large piece of ground. On this
site were built a church, a school house, and a house for the Bishop to
live in.

Rajah Brooke was anxious that the Dyaks, who lived far from the town and
had their home in the jungles, should also be taught. Both he and Bishop
McDougall were sorry to think of their heathen state, and they wanted to
save them from becoming converts to Mohammedanism. So they sent for more
helpers from England, and these missionaries went and lived among the
Dyaks in the jungles. They built their houses, churches and schools at
distant up-country stations, and they won the love and esteem of the
Dyaks, who came to them, not only to learn to read and write, but to
listen to the wonderful "Old, Old Story" the missionaries had to tell of
a God, Who loved them, and came to earth and died for them, and rose
from the dead, and ascended up to Heaven, and Who wanted the whole world
to learn of His love and become His faithful followers.

