


CHAPTER III

A DYAK VILLAGE HOUSE


Among the Dyaks a large number of families live together under one roof.
A small village would consist probably of one long house, in which
twenty or thirty or more families live. This village house is built on
posts of hard wood, which raise the floor from six to twelve feet above
the ground. It is wise of them to build their houses in this way,
because the ground, even on the hills, is very damp in the rainy season,
and, besides this, there are snakes and scorpions and centipedes
crawling about, which would trouble the Dyaks if their houses were
built on the ground. Another reason for building their houses in this
way is that if they live together in large numbers, high above the
ground, it is not easy for their enemies to attack and overcome them.

[Illustration: A DYAK VILLAGE HOUSE]

The entrance to this house is made by a notched trunk or log, which
serves as a ladder; one is fixed at each end of the house. The length of
the building varies according to the number of families inhabiting it,
but as the rooms occupied by the different families are built on the
same plan, the whole presents a uniform and regular appearance.

The long Dyak house is built in a straight line, and the walls and roof
are thatched with dried palm leaves. There is a long uncovered verandah
where the paddy[1] is put out to be dried by the sun; afterwards it is
pounded to get rid of its husk, and so converted into rice. Here, also,
the clothes and a variety of other things are hung out to dry. The
flooring of this part of the house is generally made of laths of hard
wood, so as to stand exposure to the weather. The flooring of the rest
of the house is made of split palm or bamboo tied down with rattan or
cane.

[Footnote 1: Paddy--rice in the husk.]

Next to the long uncovered verandah comes the long open hall, or covered
verandah, which stretches without any partition along the whole length
of the house. It is a cool and pleasant place, and is much frequented by
men and women for conversation and indoor pursuits. Here the women do
their work--the weaving of cloth, or the plaiting of mats. Here, too,
the men chop up the firewood used for cooking their food, and even make
boats, if not of too great a size. This long hall is a public place
open to all comers, and used as a road by travellers, who climb up the
ladder at one end, walk through the whole length of the house, and go
down the ladder at the other end. The floor is carpeted with thick and
heavy mats made of cane, interlaced with narrow strips of beaten bark.
Over these are spread other mats of finer texture, when necessary, for
visitors to sit upon, for you must understand the Dyaks do not use
chairs or forms, but always sit on the floor.

