On one side of this long public hall is a row of doors. Each of these
leads into a separate room, which is occupied by a family. This room
serves several purposes. It serves as a kitchen, because in one corner
there is a fireplace where the food is cooked. It also serves as a
dining-room, because when the meal is ready, mats are spread here, and
the inmates squat on the floor to eat their meal. It also serves as a
bedroom, and at night the mats for sleeping are spread out, and here the
inmates sleep.

Round three sides of the room--the fourth side being occupied by the
fireplace--are ranged the treasured valuables of the Dyaks--old earthen
jars, some of which are of great value, and brass gongs and guns. Their
cups and plates are hung up in rows flat against the wall. The flooring
of this room is the same as that of the public hall outside, and made of
split palm or bamboo tied down with cane. The floor is swept after a
fashion, the refuse falling through the flooring to the ground
underneath. The room is stuffy and not such a pleasant place as the open
hall outside. The pigs and poultry occupy the waste space under the
house.

Each family has its own portion of the long public hall outside, and the
length of this corresponds to the breadth of the room occupied by the
family, and in each of these portions there is a small fireplace which
consists of a slab of stone, at which the men warm themselves when they
get up, as they usually do, in the chill of the early morning before the
sun has risen.

Over this fireplace in the open hall hangs the most valuable ornament in
the eyes of the Dyak, the bunch of human heads. These are the heads
obtained when on the war-path by various members of the family--dead and
living--and handed down from father to son as the most precious
heirlooms--more precious, indeed, than the ancient jars which the Dyaks
prize so highly.

The posts in this public part of the Dyak village house are often
adorned with the horns of deer and the tusks of wild boar. The empty
sheaths of swords are hung from these horns or from wooden hooks, while
the naked blades are placed in racks overhead.

