When the meal is over, they wash the crockery and put it away. The mats
are swept and taken up, and the refuse thrown through the open floor
for the pigs and poultry under the house to eat.

The floor of the Dyak house is clean enough because all the dirt falls
through on to the ground underneath; consequently this is covered with
rubbish, and perpetually wet from the water thrown down from the floor
above, and, being the favourite resort of the pigs and fowls of the long
Dyak house, often smells horribly.




CHAPTER IV

DYAK BABIES AND CHILDREN


A Dyak baby is much like any other baby in being a little helpless human
thing that spends most of his time in sleeping and feeding, worrying its
mother with its constant wants, but yet loved greatly by her, and as it
grows up, making its parents proud of it, and amusing them by its
cunning little ways. Its colour varies from a light brown with a tinge
of yellow to a dark chocolate, and it wears no clothing at all until it
is five or six years old.

Until a civilised government interfered to prevent such cruel murders,
there used to be a custom among the Dyaks that if the mother died when
her child was born, the poor babe should pay the penalty and be buried
with the mother. The reasons given for this cruel act was that the child
was the cause of the mother's death, and that there was no one to nurse
and care for it. No woman would dare to nurse such an orphan, lest it
should bring misfortune upon her own children. Therefore the poor child
was often placed alive in the coffin with the dead mother, and both
were buried together. That was the old cruel Dyak custom, but I am glad
to say it is a long time since it has been carried out. I have myself
known many cases among the Dyaks where the mother has died, and the
orphan has been adopted and brought up by some friend or relative.

When a child is born a fowl is waved over it as a kind of offering to
the gods and spirits. This fowl is then killed, cooked, and eaten by the
parents, and any friends that may be present.

