During the first three days the child receives its bath in a wooden
vessel in the house, but on the fourth day it is taken to the river.
Some curious ceremonies attend its first bath in the river. An old man
of some standing, who has been successful in his undertakings, is asked
to bathe the child. He wades into the river holding the child in his
arms. A fowl is killed on the bank, a wing is cut off, and if the child
be a boy this wing is stuck upon a spear, and if a girl it is fixed to
the slip of wood used to pass between the threads in weaving, and this
is fixed on the bank, and the blood allowed to drop into the stream, as
an offering to propitiate the spirits supposed to inhabit the waters,
and to insure that, at any rate, no accident by water shall happen to
the child. The remainder of the fowl is taken back to the house and
cooked and eaten.

At some period after the child's birth--it may be within a few weeks or
it may be deferred for years--a ceremony is gone through in which the
gods and spirits are invoked to grant the child health and wealth and
success in all his undertakings. This ceremony is generally postponed
for some years if the parents are poor, in order to enable them to save
a little to pay for the entertainment of their friends and relations on
the occasion. Where the parents are better off, the ceremony is held a
few weeks after the birth of the child. Several witch doctors are asked
to take part in this performance. A portion of the long open hall of the
Dyak house is screened off by large hand-woven Dyak sheets, and within
these the mother sits with the child in her arms. The witch doctors walk
round and round singing an incantation. Generally there is a leader who
sings by himself for a few minutes, then he pauses, and turns round to
his followers, and they all sing in chorus. Then the leader sings by
himself again, and so on. They all walk round, first turning their feet
to the right, and stamping on the floor, then pausing a moment, and
turning their feet to the left, still stamping. This ceremony begins in
the evening and goes on for several hours. When it is over, food is
brought out to the assembled guests, and all partake of the provided
feast.

