


CHAPTER VI

HEAD-HUNTING


The custom of head-hunting at one time prevailed to a great extent among
the Dyaks. In the old days no Dyak chief of any standing could be
married unless he had been successful in obtaining the head of an enemy.
For this reason it was usual to make an expedition into the enemy's
country before the marriage feast of any great chief. The head brought
home need not be that of a man; the head of a woman or child would
serve the purpose quite as well.

There were certain ancient customs which necessitated the possession of
a human head. When any person died, the relatives went into mourning.
They put away their ornaments and finery, and these were tied together
in bundles. At the feast in honour of the dead, these bundles were all
undone, and the men and women were allowed to wear their ornaments
again. Some man cut the string with which they were tied up, but before
he could do such a thing, it was necessary that a human head be brought
into the house, and it was usual for the man who had obtained that head
to take a leading part in the ceremonies and cut open the bundles. It
was also customary to make an offering of a fresh human head to the
spirits when a new village house was to be built.

But these customs are not now universally observed. At the feast in
honour of the dead, the headman of the house generally cuts open the
bundles of finery that have been put away, and at the building of a new
house, the killing of a pig is supposed to satisfy the demands of the
spirits.

It is presumed that a man, who has secured a human head, must
necessarily be brave. But this need not be the case at all, for, as I
have already mentioned, the head may be that of a woman or child. Again,
the heads need not be obtained in open warfare. Very often the head of
an enemy is taken while he is asleep. Nor is it necessary that a man
kill his victim alone with his own hand. Frequently many of his friends
help him to kill some unfortunate man whom they have waylaid.

