In the old days an expedition, that one tribe intended to take against
another, was announced at one of their feasts, when the village was
thronged with guests from far and near. Some great chief would advance
his reason for the desired attack. Either some of his people had been
slain and revenge was called for, or else they required a human head to
enable them to put off their mourning. Or perhaps they wished to build a
new house, and required some human heads to offer to the spirits of the
earth. Or, possibly, he himself wished to marry, and wanted a head as a
proof of his valour in the eyes of his lady-love. Among the crowd who
listened, there would be many who wished to follow him on the war-path.
The women would urge their husbands, or lovers, or brothers to go. The
chief would choose a certain number to form a council of war. These
would discuss the matter, and it would be decided when the party was to
start for the enemy's country, and how much food each man was to take
with him.

Then the War Spear would be sent round to the neighbouring villages, to
let all know of the expedition. A man would bring the spear to a long
Dyak village house, deliver his message, and return, leaving the spear
to be carried on by one of the men in that house to the next village,
and so on. At once the men in that house would get their war-boats
ready. They would furbish up their arms, and sharpen their weapons, and
decorate their helmets and war-jackets.

The costume a Dyak wears when going on the war-path, consists of a
basket-work cap, decorated with feathers, and sometimes with human hair,
a sleeveless skin or cotton jacket, and the usual Dyak costume of the
waistcloth. For weapons, he has a sword. This may be of foreign or of
their own make. It is a dangerous weapon at close quarters. He also has
a spear consisting of a long wooden shaft of some hard wood with a steel
spear-head, which is tied on firmly to the shaft with cane. For
defensive purposes the Dyak has a large wooden shield, about three feet
long, which, with its handle, is hollowed out of a single block of wood.
It is held in the left hand, well advanced before the body, and meant
not so much to receive the spear-point, as to divert it by a twist of
the hand. It is generally painted in bright colours, and often decorated
with human hair.

