Sometimes the shaft of the spear is a _sumpit_ or blow-pipe. This is a
small wooden tube about eight feet long. The smoothness and straightness
of the bore is remarkable. The hole is drilled with an iron rod, one end
of which is chisel-pointed, through a log of hard wood, which is
afterwards pared down and rounded till it is about an inch in diameter.

The dart used with the _sumpit_ is usually made of a thin splinter of
the _nibong_ palm, stuck into a round piece of very light wood, so as to
afford a surface for the breath to act upon. These darts are sharpened
to a fine point, and are carried in neatly-carved bamboo quivers.

The poison for these darts is obtained from the _ipoh_ tree (upas).
Though the wound made by the dart is very slight, yet so potent and
deadly is the poison, that death follows in a very short time.

The Dyaks do not attack a village if their approach has been discovered,
and the people are on the defensive. Under these circumstances, they
content themselves with cutting off stragglers, or hide near the
water-side for people who are going to bathe, or on their way to examine
their fish-traps. These they attack unawares, cut down, take their
heads, and escape into the jungle before the alarm is given.

When fighting, the Dyak warriors gather round their chiefs and defend
them bravely. Relatives often cluster together for mutual help. When one
of them is killed, rather than allow the enemy to take his head, they
decapitate him themselves, and bring his head back.

On the return from a war expedition, if the people of any particular
boat have secured a human head, word is sent up to the Dyak village
house, as soon as the boat reaches the landing-stage. The men remain in
the boat, and wait there, till all the women-folk come to it dressed in
their best. The excitement is great, and there are continual shouts of
triumph as the women, singing a monotonous chant, surround the hero who
has killed the enemy and lead him to the house. He is seated in a place
of honour, the head is put on a brass tray before him, and all crowd
round him to hear his account of the battle, and how he succeeded in
killing one of his foes.

