[Illustration: ON THE WARPATH]

The Dyaks value very highly the heads taken in war. They hang them over
the fireplaces in the long open verandahs of their houses, they make
offerings to them, and they believe that the souls of those whom they
have slain will be their slaves in the other world. I look upon it as a
remarkable fact worthy of record, that two great Dyak chiefs, who became
Christians--one the Orang Kaya of Padih, Saribas, and the other, Tarang
of Krian--should have taken such a decided step as to refuse to
treasure their enemies' heads any more. They were both men of position,
with a great reputation for bravery. Two of the grandchildren of the
Orang Kaya were at my school at Temudok for some time. A son of Tarang,
Tujoh by name, worked as my Catechist in Krian for several years. While
so many Dyak Christians are most unwilling to give up all their old
heathen customs, these two Christian Dyak chiefs happily took up the
right attitude, in such an important matter in the eyes of the Dyaks as
head-hunting.




CHAPTER VII

BIRDS AND BEASTS IN BORNEO


The animal life in Borneo is akin to that of Sumatra and Java, but with
certain differences. Borneo is free from tigers, and this is fortunate,
for travelling through the jungles would be dangerous indeed if tigers
were likely to be encountered. The only wild animals to be found are the
small and comparatively harmless tree-tiger, and the little brown
honey-bear, but neither of these are much feared. Wild boars abound, but
these never attack travellers, and are not a source of danger.

There are many varieties of snakes, varying in size from the python
downwards. The python is a dangerous animal, and can kill a deer or a
wild pig, and swallow it whole. After a meal of that kind, a python is
unable to move for several days.

Monkeys of various kinds abound, and are often seen among the branches,
sitting, hanging by hands or tails, leaping, grimacing, jabbering. There
is the great man-like ape--the _orang-utan_, or _maias_ as he is called
by the Dyaks. As a rule this animal does not exceed the height of four
feet two inches, though there are stories told of its attaining a far
greater size. The height, however, gives a poor idea of the animal's
bulk and strength. The body is as large as that of an average man, but
the legs are extremely short. Its arms are of great length, and measure
over seven feet in spread. The whole body is covered with long red hair.
It rarely attacks man, but when provoked is very ferocious, and as its
strength is very great, it is a foe not to be despised.

