Ferocious crocodiles abound in the rivers, but the number of human lives
taken by them is not great. For the most part crocodiles live upon the
animals and fish they catch.

For superstitious reasons, the Dyaks do not interfere with the crocodile
until he has shown some sign of his man-eating propensity. If the
crocodile will live at peace with him, the Dyak has no wish to start a
quarrel. If, however, the crocodile breaks the truce and kills someone,
then the Dyaks set to work to kill the culprit, and keep on catching and
killing crocodiles until they find him. The Dyaks generally wear brass
ornaments, and by cutting open a dead crocodile, they can easily find
out if he is the creature they wish to punish. Sometimes as many as ten
crocodiles are killed before they manage to destroy the animal they
want.

Wild pig and deer are to be found in the jungles, and these are often
hunted by the Dyaks. The Dyaks subsist more on a vegetable and fish
diet than on an animal diet, so hunting with them is only an occasional
pursuit. A Dyak village swarms with dogs, but most of these are of no
use for the chase, and only prowl about the premises, and consume the
refuse food. But some of their dogs, though small in size, are plucky
little animals, and will attack a boar three or four times their size.
Such dogs are of great value to the few Dyaks in each village who care
for hunting. When the dogs are good and know their work, native hunting
is not difficult. The hunter loiters about, and the dogs beat the jungle
for themselves, and when they have found a scent, give tongue, and soon
run the animal to bay. The hunter knows this by their peculiar bark,
hurries to the spot and spears the game. The boars are sometimes very
dangerous when wounded, and turn furiously on the hunter, and unless he
is nimble and climbs up some tree near at hand, or is assisted by his
dogs, he might fare ill in spite of his sword and spear. The dogs are
very useful, and by attacking the hind legs of the animal keep making
him turn round.

