Deer are more easily run down than pigs, because they have not the
strength to go any great distance, especially in the hot weather.

A favourite way of catching deer is to send a man to follow the spoor of
a deer, and to find out where it lies to rest during the heat of the
day. Then large nets, made of fine cane, are hung around, and the deer
is driven into these. The hunting party divide into two parties, some to
watch the net, the others, accompanied by a large crowd of women and
children, drive the deer towards it by yelling and shouting. The
startled deer springs from its covert and makes towards the forest, and
gets entangled in the meshes of the net. Before it can extricate itself,
it is killed by the watchers.

Lizards of all sizes abound. There is a small lizard which is seen on
the walls and ceilings as soon as the lamps are lit. It eats up any
mosquitoes or moths that it can find. What happens to this animal in the
daytime, I do not know, but as soon as the lamps are lit several of them
always make their appearance.

There is a large lizard, about a foot long, found sometimes in the Dyak
houses. It makes a loud uncanny sound at night, and cries "_Gok-ko_!" at
intervals. This animal is named after its cry, and is called by the
Dyaks "_Gok-ko_." The natives consider that these lizards bring good
luck, and portend good harvests, so they never kill them.

Many other kinds of lizards are found, but the most remarkable is the
chameleon, which is often seen on the branches of trees. This animal can
change its colour. When in the sun, it is generally a bright green, in
the shade, it is brown in colour, and when dead, its body becomes quite
black. These are the principal colours of the animal, but often its body
is a combination of these colours, and it looks very beautiful.

Of birds there are to be found many varieties of wood-pigeon, as well as
parrots of different kinds, which fly about in large flocks. There are
also tiny humming-birds with feathers of a bright metallic hue. These
look very pretty as they hover over flowers.

