The Dyaks have a curious superstition that if food is offered to a man,
and he refuses it, and goes away without at least touching it, some
misfortune is sure to befall him. It is said that he is sure to be
either attacked by a crocodile, or bitten by a snake, or suffer from the
attack of some animal.

When Dyaks have been asked to stay and have a meal, if they do not feel
inclined to do so, I have often noticed them touch the food before going
away. I have never been able to discover the origin of this curious
superstition, but innumerable tales are told of those who have
disregarded it, and have paid the penalty by being attacked by some
animal.

The Dyaks are very truthful. So disgraceful indeed do the Dyaks consider
the deceiving of others by an untruth, that such conduct is handed down
to posterity by a remarkable custom. They heap up a pile of the branches
of trees in memory of the man who has told a great lie, so that future
generations may know of his wickedness, and take warning from it. The
persons deceived start the _tugong bula_--"the liar's mound"--by heaping
up a large number of branches in some conspicuous spot by the side of
the path from one village to another. Every passer-by contributes to it,
and at the same time curses the man in memory of whom it is. The Dyaks
consider the adding to any _tugong bula_ they may pass a sacred duty,
the omission of which will meet with supernatural punishment, and so,
however pressed for time a Dyak may be, he stops to throw on the pile
some small branch or twig.

A few branches, a few dry twigs and leaves--that is what the _tugong
bula_ is at first. But day by day it increases in size. Every passer-by
adds to it, and in a few years' time it becomes an imposing memorial to
one who was a liar. Once started, there seems to be no means of
destroying a _tugong bula_. There used to be one by the side of the path
between Seratok and Sebetan. As the branches and twigs that composed it
often came over the path, on a hot day in the dry weather, I have more
than once applied a match to it and burnt it down. However, in a very
short time, a new heap of branches and twigs was piled on the ashes of
the old _tugong bula_.

