2. The principal feast connected with _Farming_ is the _Gawai Batu_ (the
"Stone Feast"). It takes place before the farming operations begin, and
is held in honour of Pulang Gana, the god of the land, who lives in the
bowels of the earth, and has power to make the land fruitful or
unfruitful. In this feast invocations are made to this god, and he is
asked to give them a good harvest. The whetstones and farming implements
are placed in a heap in the public part of the Dyak house. Offerings are
made to the whetstones with a request that they may sharpen the tools
and thus lighten the labours of their owners. After the feast is over,
the whetstones are taken to the different farms, and the work of cutting
down the jungle for planting begins.

3. The _Great Feast connected with the Dead_ is the _Gawai Antu_ (the
"Spirit Feast"). No definite time is fixed for the celebration of this,
and it may be held one or two years after the death of a person. All
those that have died since the last time the feast was held, are
honoured at the same time, so that the number of departed spirits
remembered at this feast is sometimes great.

The preparation for this feast is carried on for many weeks. Distant
friends and relatives are visited, and asked to help with gifts of food
or money. Hard wood memorial monuments for the graves are got ready by
the men. The women weave, with finely-split bamboo, small imitations of
various articles of personal and domestic use, and those are hung over
the graves, and in this way given to the dead for their use in the other
world. If the dead person be a man, a bamboo gun, a shield, a war-cap
and such things are woven; if a woman, a loom, a fish-basket, a
winnowing fan, etc.; if a child, bamboo toys of various kinds.

Before the feasting begins in the evening, there takes place the formal
putting off of mourning. The nearest male relative of the dead person in
whose honour the feast is held, comes dressed in an old and shabby waist
cloth. This is cut through by some chief, and the man puts on a better
garment. In the case of female relatives, also, their old shabby
garments are cut through and thrown aside, and they resume the use of
bright clothing and personal ornaments. The bundles containing finery,
that were put away at the death of their relative, are brought forth,
and the string tying them cut through, and the owners put on their
bright garments again. As the feast is in honour of several who have
died since the feast was last held, this kind of thing goes on in
several of the rooms at the same time.

