[Illustration: A DYAK GIRL IN GALA COSTUME]

The _Ajat_ or War Dance is danced by one man. He is generally fully
armed with sword, spear and shield. He acts in pantomime what is done
when on the war-path. The dancer begins by imitating the creeping
through the jungle in cautious manner, looking to the right and to the
left, before and behind, for the foe. The lurking enemy is suddenly
discovered, and after some rapid attack and defence, a sudden plunge is
made upon him, and he lies dead on the ground. The taking of the head of
this invisible enemy ends the dance. Both kinds of dancing are
accompanied by the striking of brass gongs and drums.

Cock-fighting is a favourite sport, and there is a great deal of it at
all Dyak forests. The cocks have artificial steel spurs which are very
sharp.




CHAPTER X

THE WITCH DOCTOR


The children of Borneo are taught from their earliest years that there
are evil spirits everywhere--in the air, in the trees, in the rocks and
in the streams--and that these cause disease and death. And so when
sickness comes, the witch doctor or _Manang_ is sent for, because he
claims to have mysterious powers over the spirits.

Every disease is believed to be caused by the touch of some demon, who
wishes to carry off the soul of the sick man into the other world, and
the witch doctor is the man who has power to charm or kill the evil
spirit, and rescue the soul of the sick man from his cruel clutches.
When called in to attend a patient, he in company with other medicine
men go through a ceremony, which, though agreeing in the main points,
differs in details according to what the disease is, and the amount of
fees paid.

The witch doctor always possesses a _lupong_ or medicine box, generally
made of bark skin, which is filled with charms, consisting of scraps of
wood or bark, curiously twisted roots, pebbles and fragments of quartz.
These charms are either inherited or revealed to their owners by the
spirits in dreams, as possessing medicinal virtue. One important and
necessary charm is the _Batu Ilau_--"stone of light"--a bit of quartz
crystal into which the witch doctor looks in order to see the soul, so
as to be able to catch it and bring it back to the body it has left. It
is believed by the Dyaks that in all cases of serious sickness, the soul
leaves the body and wanders about at greater or less distance from it;
if it can be caught before it has proceeded too far on its journey to
the other world, well and good; if not, the patient dies. Whether the
patient recover or not, the witch doctor is rewarded for his services.
He makes sure of this beforehand, and demands his fee before he
undertakes the case.

