From what has been said it will be seen that the Dyak witch doctor uses
much deceit and trades on the ignorance of others. He pretends to be
able to "catch the soul" of a sick man, and is paid for doing so. When
Dyaks have given up their old beliefs and superstitions, and have
accepted the true Faith, they naturally give up their belief in the
witch doctor's mysterious powers. For this reason the greatest opponents
to the advance of the Gospel in Borneo are the _Manangs_. I am glad to
say, however, that some Dyak witch doctors have listened to the teaching
of the missionaries and have seen the wickedness of the deceitful lives
they have led. These have become Christians, and have openly confessed
to their evil practices in trading on the superstitions of the Dyaks.
Some have become Catechists and teachers, and are teaching others to
renounce the belief in evil spirits which they at one time taught, and
are undoing the evil they did in the past by bringing people to God.




CHAPTER XI

SOME ANIMAL STORIES


The Dyaks of Borneo, both young and old, are very fond of listening to
stories, and often in the evening in the public hall of the long Dyak
village house, a crowd of men, women and children may be seen seated on
mats, listening to a legend or fairy-tale related by some old man. They
have a large number of stories about animals which the Dyaks are never
tired of listening to; and though they know them well, still they love
to hear them retold again and again. These animal stories correspond to
the adventures of Brer Rabbit, or our own tales illustrating the cunning
of the fox. In the Dyak stories the mouse-deer, one of the smallest
animals to be found in Borneo, is represented as very clever, and able
to outwit with his cunning the larger and stronger animals. Here are two
animal stories which I have myself heard related by the Dyaks
themselves:


THE STORY OF THE MOUSE-DEER AND OTHER ANIMALS WHO WENT OUT FISHING

Once upon a time the Mouse-deer, accompanied by many other animals, went
on a fishing expedition. All day long they fished, and in the evening
they returned to the little hut they had put up by the river-side,
salted the fish they had caught, and stored it up in large jars. They
noticed, when they returned in the evening, that much of the fish they
had left in the morning was missing. The animals held a council to
decide what it was best to do, and after some discussion, it was decided
that the Deer should stay behind to catch the thief, while the others
went out to fish.

