"I can smell some nice fish, and I am hungry, and want some."

"I cannot let you have any," said the Bear. "It does not belong to me."

"Let me have some at once," said the Giant in a voice of thunder,
"before I kill and eat you."

The Bear was too much frightened to interfere, while the Giant ransacked
the jars. When he had had enough, he bade the Bear "Good-bye!" and went
off.

On the return of the other animals, the Tiger said he would put a stop
to this state of things. He would stay at home the next day and keep
watch. It would have to be a very strong Giant indeed that would dare to
fight him!

The Giant paid his visit as before, and told the Tiger that he was
hungry, and asked for some fish. At first the Tiger refused to give any
to him, but when the Giant threatened to attack him, he was afraid, like
the others had been, and let him have as much as he wanted.

On their return, again the animals found their fish had been stolen.

Then the Mouse-deer spoke. "I see," he said, "that it is no use
depending on you others. You boast, but when the time comes for action,
you have no courage. I will stay at home, and secure this giant of whom
you are all afraid."

When his companions had gone away the next morning, the Mouse-deer tied
a bandage round his forehead and lay down.

Soon the Giant came, and shouted: "Who's there?"

"Only me," said the Mouse-deer, groaning with pain. "Come up, whoever
you may be."

The Giant climbed up the rickety ladder, and saw the Mouse-deer lying
with his head bandaged.

"What is the matter with you?" asked the Giant.

"I have a headache," was the answer.

"Whatever has given you the headache?" asked the Giant.

"Can't you guess?" said the Mouse-deer. "It is the smell of this fish in
these jars. It is so strong, it is enough to make anyone ill. Don't you
feel ill yourself?"

"I think I do," said the Giant. "Cannot you give me some medicine?"

"I have no medicine with me," said the Mouse-deer, "but I can bandage
you, as I have bandaged myself, and that is sure to do you good."

