"Thank you," said the Giant. "It is good of you to take the trouble to
cure me."

So the Giant lay down as he was bid, while the Mouse-deer bandaged his
head and fastened the ends of the bandage to pegs which he drove into
the ground under the open flooring of the hut.

"Don't you feel a little pain in your ankles?" anxiously suggested the
Mouse-deer.

"I think I do," said the foolish giant. "Suppose you bandage them also."

So the Mouse-deer, chuckling to himself, bandaged his ankles, and made
them fast to the floor of the hut.

"Do you not feel the pain in your legs?" asked the Mouse-deer.

"I think I do," was the foolish Giant's reply.

So the Mouse-deer bandaged his legs and made them secure, so that the
Giant was quite unable to move.

By this time the Giant began to get uneasy, and trying to get up, and
finding himself securely bound, he struggled, and roared in pain and
anger.

The little Mouse-deer sat before him and laughed, and said:

"You were a match for the Deer, the Pig, the Bear, and the Tiger, but
you are defeated by me. Don't make so much noise, or I shall drive a peg
through your temples and kill you."

Just then the others returned from their fishing. Great was their joy to
find their enemy securely bound. With shouts of triumph they fell upon
the Giant and killed him, and praised the Mouse-deer for his cleverness
in securing him.


THE STORY OF THE MOUSE-DEER, THE DEER, AND THE PIG

A Mouse-deer, wandering in the jungle, fell into a pit. He could not get
out, so he waited patiently for some passer-by. Presently a Pig passed
by the mouth of the pit. The Mouse-deer called out to him, and he looked
in and asked the Mouse-deer what he was doing at the bottom of the pit.

"Don't you know what is going to happen?" said the Mouse-deer. "The sky
is going to fall down, and everybody will be crushed to dust unless he
takes shelter in a pit. If you want to save your life, you had better
jump in."

The Pig jumped into the pit, and the Mouse-deer got on his back, but he
found he was not high enough to enable him to leap out.

