The graves are rarely more than three feet deep. The Dyaks dare not step
into the grave to deepen it, because, according to their superstitious
ideas, any one who does such a thing will die a violent death. They use
no spade or hoe to turn up the earth, but cut the soil with their
choppers, and throw up the mould with their hands. They dig the grave as
far as their arms will reach, and no farther.

When the corpse is buried, there are placed either in the grave or on
it, for use in the next world, various articles of clothing, personal
ornaments, weapons of warfare, implements of farm work, and even
instruments of music, according to the sex and natural proclivities of
the dead. Some of these belong to the departed; others are given by
friends as tokens of affection.

When the grave has been filled with earth, it is fenced round, and food
and drink are placed in the enclosure, and at either end something is
put to indicate the sex and favourite occupation of the deceased. If the
grave be that of a warrior, it is roofed and decorated with streamers,
and such of his weapons as are not buried with him are hung about, and
the ground around is palisaded and spiked. The grave of the hunter is
distinguished by his spear, his blow-pipe and quiver, together with the
trophies of the chase--stags' antlers, and boars' tusks. Some articles
of feminine attire or work--spindles, petticoats, waist-rings, or
water-gourds--indicate the graves of women.




CHAPTER XIV

A DYAK LEGEND


There are many fairy-tales and legends known to the Dyaks of the present
day. As they have no written language, these have been handed down by
word of mouth, from generation to generation, from ancient times. These
tales and legends may be divided into two classes: 1. Those which are
mythical and related as such, which are simply meant to interest and
amuse, and in these respects resemble the fairy-tales familiar to us
all. 2. And those believed by them to be perfectly true, and to record
events which have actually taken place. These form in fact the mythology
of the Dyaks. The following legend is related by them as explaining how
they came to plant rice, and to observe the omens of birds:

