
THE STORY OF SIU

Many thousands of years ago, before the paddy plant was known, the Dyaks
lived on tapioca, yams, potatoes and such fruit as they could find in
the jungle. It was not till Siu taught them to plant paddy[3] that such
a thing as rice was known. The story of how he came to know this article
of food, and how he and his son, Seragunting, introduced it among the
Dyaks is here set forth.

[Footnote 3: Paddy--rice in the husk.]

Siu was the son of a great Dyak chief. His father died when he was quite
a child, and at the time this story begins, he had grown to manhood, and
lived with his mother, and was the head of a long Dyak house in which
lived some three hundred families. He was strong and active, and
handsome in appearance, and there was no one in the country round equal
to him either in strength or comeliness.

He proposed to the young men of his house that they should take their
blow-pipes and darts and go into the jungle to shoot birds. So one
morning they all started early. Each man had with him his bundle of food
for the day, and each went a different way, as they wished to see, on
returning in the evening, who would be the most successful of them all.

Siu wandered about the whole morning in the jungle, but, strange to say,
he did not see any bird, nor did he meet with any animal. Worn out with
fatigue, he sat down to rest under a large tree, and, feeling hungry, he
ate some of the food he had brought with him. It was now long past
midday, and he had not succeeded in killing a single bird! Suddenly he
heard, not far off, the sound of birds, and hurrying in that direction,
he came to a wild fig-tree covered with ripe fruit, which a very large
number of birds were busy eating. Never before had he seen such a sight!
On this one tree the whole feathered population of the forest seemed to
have assembled together!

[Illustration: KILLING BIRDS WITH A BLOW-PIPE]

Siu hid himself under the thick leaves of a shrub growing near, and
taking a poisoned dart, he placed it in his blow-pipe and shot it out.
He had aimed at one bird and hit it. But that bird was not the only one
that fell dead at his feet. To his astonishment, he saw that many of the
other birds near it were killed also. Again he shot out a dart, and
again the same thing happened. In a very short time, Siu had killed as
many birds as he could carry.

