He tried to return the same way he came, but soon found himself in
difficulties. He wandered about, and walked several miles, but could not
find the jungle path which he had followed early in the day. It was
beginning to grow dusk, and Siu was afraid he would have to spend the
night in the jungle.

Great was his joy, just as he was giving up all hope, to come to a
garden and a path leading from it. Siu followed this path, knowing it
would lead him to some house not far off. He soon came to a well, and
near at hand he saw the lights of a long Dyak house. He stopped to have
a bath, and hid the birds he was carrying, and his blow-pipe and quiver
in the brushwood near the well, hoping to take them with him when he
started to return the next morning.

He walked up to the house, and when he came to the bottom of the ladder
leading up to it he shouted: "Oh, you people in the house, will you
allow a stranger to walk up?" A voice answered, "Yes; come up!"

He walked up into the house. To his surprise he saw no one in the long
public hall in front of the different rooms. That part of a Dyak house,
usually so crowded, was quite empty. All was silent. Even the person who
answered him was not there to receive him.

He saw a dim light further on, and walked towards it, wondering what
had happened to all the people of the house. Presently he heard a
woman's voice in the room say: "Sit down, Siu; I will bring out the
_pinang_[4] and _sireh_[5] to you." Soon a young and remarkably pretty
girl came out of the room with the chewing ingredients, which she placed
before him.

[Footnote 4: _Pinang_--betel-nut.]

[Footnote 5: _Sireh_--a kind of pepper-leaf which the Dyaks are
fond of eating with betel-nut.]

"Here you are at last, Siu," she said; "I expected you would come
earlier. How is it you are so late?"

Siu explained that he had stopped at the well to have a bath, as he was
hot and tired.

"You must be very hungry," said the girl; "wait a moment while I prepare
some food. After you have eaten, we can have our talk together."

