Now, though Siu knew it not, this was the house of the great Singalang
Burong, the ruler of the spirit-world. He was able to change himself and
his followers into any form. When going forth on an expedition against
the enemy, he would transform himself and his followers into birds, so
that they might travel more quickly. Over the high trees of the jungle,
over the broad rivers, sometimes even across the sea, Singalang Burong
and his flock would fly. There was no trouble about food, for in the
forests there were always some wild trees in fruit, and while assuming
the form of birds, they lived on the food of birds. In his own house and
among his own people, Singalang Burong appeared as a man. He had eight
daughters, and the girl who had cooked food for Siu was the youngest of
them.

After Siu had been in the house seven days, he thought he ought to be
returning to his own people. By this time he was very much in love with
the girl who had been so kind to him, and he wished above all things to
marry her, and take her back with him to his own country.

"I have been here a whole week," he said to her, "I want to say
something, and I hope you will not be vexed with me."

"Speak on; I promise not to be angry at anything you say."

"I have learnt to love you very much," said Siu, "and I would like to
marry you, if you will consent, and take you with me to my own land.
Also, I wish you to tell me your name, and why this house is so silent,
and where all the people belonging to it are."

"I will consent to marry you, for I also love you. But you must first
promise me certain things. In the first place, you must not tell your
people of this house, and what you have seen here. Then you must promise
faithfully not to hurt a bird or even to hold one in your hands. If ever
you break these promises, then we cease to be man and wife."

"Yes," said Siu, "I promise not to speak of what I have seen here until
you give me leave to do so. And as you do not wish it, I will never
hurt or handle a bird."

