"Oh, yes, I will gladly accompany you back to your home. But you must
remember and say nothing of the things you have seen or heard in this
house."

They started early the next day, taking with them enough food for four
days, as they expected the journey would last as long as that. Siu's
wife seemed to know the way, and after journeying three days, they came
to the stream near the house, and they stopped to have a bath. Some of
the children of the house saw them there, and ran up to the house and
said: "Siu has come back, and with him is a beautiful woman, who seems
to be his wife."

Some of the older people checked the children, saying: "It cannot be
Siu; he has been dead for a long time. Don't mention his name, for if
his mother hears you talk of him, it will make her very unhappy."

But the children persisted in saying that it was indeed Siu that they
had seen. Just then Siu and his wife appeared and walked up into the
house.

Siu said to his wife: "The door before which I hang up my sword is the
door of my room. Walk straight in. You will find my mother there, and
she will gladly welcome you as her daughter-in-law."

When they came into the house, all the inmates rushed out to meet them,
and to congratulate Siu on his safe return. They asked him many
questions: Where had he been living all this time? How he came to be
married? And what was the name of his wife's country? But Siu answered
little, as he remembered the promise he had made to his wife, that he
would not speak of what he had seen in her house.

When Siu hung up his sword, his wife pushed open the door and walked in.
Siu's mother was very pleased to see her son, whom she had mourned as
dead, alive and well, and when told of his marriage, she welcomed his
wife with joy.

In process of time Siu's wife bore him a son, whom they named
Seragunting. He was a fine child, and as befitted the grandson of
Singalang Burong, he grew big and strong in a miraculously short time,
and when he was three years old, he was taller and stronger than others
four times his age.

