One day as Seragunting was playing with the other boys, a man brought
some birds which he had caught in a trap. As he walked through the
house, he passed Siu who was sitting in the open verandah. Siu,
forgetting the promise he had made to his wife, asked to see the birds,
and he took one in his hands and stroked it. His wife was sitting near,
and she saw him hold the bird, and was very vexed that he had broken his
promise to her.

She said to herself: "My husband has broken his word to me. He has done
the thing he promised me he would never do. I cannot stay in this house
any longer. I must return to the house of my father, Singalang Burong."

She took the water-vessels in her hands, and went out as if to fetch
water. But when she came to the well, she placed the water-gourds on the
ground, and disappeared into the jungle.

In the meantime, Seragunting, tired with his play, came back in search
of his mother. She was very fond indeed of him, and he expected her to
come to him as soon as he called out to her. But he was disappointed. No
one answered his call, and when he looked into the room, she was not
there. He asked his father where his mother was, and he told him she had
gone to the well to fetch water and would soon be back.

But hour after hour passed and she did not return. So Seragunting asked
his father to accompany him to the well to look for her. They found the
water-vessels there, but saw no signs of her. So they both returned
sadly to the house, taking back with them the water-gourds which Siu's
wife had left at the well.

Early the next day Seragunting and his father went in search of her.
They took with them only a little food, as they expected to find her not
far off. But they wandered the whole day, and saw no signs of her.

They spent the night under a large tree in the jungle. Early the next
morning they were surprised to find a small bundle of food, wrapped up
in leaves, near Seragunting. The food was evidently meant for him alone,
as it was not enough for two, but he gave some of it to his father, who
ate sparingly of it, so that his son might not be hungry. They wandered
on for several days, and every night the same thing occurred--a bundle
of food was placed near Seragunting.

