After journeying many days, they came to the sea-shore. Siu suggested to
his son that they should return, but Seragunting, who during the journey
had grown up into a strong lad with a will of his own, would not consent
to do so, as he was determined to find his mother.

After waiting by the shore a few days, they saw a dark cloud come to
them over the sea. As it came nearer, it took the form of a gigantic
Spider, carrying some food and clothes.

"Do not be afraid," said the Spider, "I have come to help you and your
father. I have brought you food and clothing. When you have eaten, and
changed your clothes, I will take you to the land on the other side."

They were told to follow the Spider. They did so. Strange to say, the
water became as hard as a sand-bank under their feet. For a long time
they were out of sight of land, but towards evening they approached the
opposite shore. They saw several houses and one larger and more imposing
than the others. To this house the Spider directed Seragunting telling
him he would find his mother there.

Seragunting's mother was very glad to see her son and embraced him.

"How was it you went away and left us?" he said. "We missed you so much,
and have travelled many days and nights in search of you. Now our
troubles are over, for I have found you."

"My dear son," she said as she caressed him, "though I left you, I did
not forget you. It was I who placed the food by you every night. I left
your father because he broke his promise to me. But you are my own son,
and I have been wishing to see you ever since I left your house. It was
I who sent the Spider to help you and show you your way here."

Then she spoke to her husband Siu, whom she was glad to meet again. All
three then went out into the verandah, which was now full of people.

Seragunting was told by his mother to call the sons-in-law of Singalang
Burong his uncles, but they refused to acknowledge him as their nephew.
They proposed several ordeals to prove the truth of his words that he
was indeed the grandson of Singalang Burong. In all these Seragunting
came off victorious, and they were compelled to admit that he was a true
grandson of the great Singalang Burong.

