But Siu was unhappy in his new home. He could not help thinking of his
mother, whom he had left alone, and he was anxious to return to his own
people. He begged his wife to accompany him back to his old home, but
she refused to do so. It was decided that Siu and his son should stay
with Singalang Burong till they had obtained such knowledge as would be
useful to them in the future, and that then they were to return to the
other world, taking with them the secrets they had learnt.

All the people of the house were now most kind to Siu and his son, and
were most anxious to teach them all they could. They were taken on a war
expedition against the enemy, so that they might learn the science and
art of Dyak warfare. They were taught how to set traps to catch deer and
wild pig. They were shown the different methods of catching fish, and
learnt to make the different kinds of fish-trap used by Dyaks of the
present day, and they remained in Singalang Burong's house that whole
year for the purpose of acquiring a complete and practical knowledge of
the different stages of paddy growing.

When the year was ended, Seragunting's mother took him and Siu to see
her father. Singalang Burong was seated in his chair of state, and
received them most kindly. He explained to Siu who he was, and the
worship due to him, and they learnt also about the observance of omens,
both good and bad.

"I am the ruler of the spirit-world," said Singalang Burong, "and have
power to make men successful in all they undertake. At all times if you
wish for my help, you must call upon me and make offerings to me.

"You have learnt here how to plant paddy. I will give you some paddy to
take away with you, and when you get back to your own country, you can
teach men how to cultivate it. You will find rice a much more
strengthening article of food than the yams and potatoes you used to
live upon, and you will become a strong and hardy race.

"And to help you in your daily work, my sons-in-law will always tell you
whether what you do is right or wrong. In every work that you undertake,
you must pay heed to the voices of the sacred birds--_Katupong_,
_Beragai_, _Bejampong_, _Papau_, _Nendak_, _Kutok_ and _Embuas_. These
birds, named after my sons-in-law, represent them, and are the means by
which I make known my wishes to mankind. When you hear them, remember it
is myself speaking to you, through my sons-in-law, for encouragement or
for warning. I am willing to help you, but I expect due respect to be
paid to me, and will not allow my commands to be disobeyed."

