Siu and Seragunting bade their friends farewell, and started to return.
As soon as they had descended the ladder of the house of Singalang
Burong, they were swiftly transported through the air by some mysterious
power, and in a moment they found themselves at their own house.

Their friends crowded round them, glad to see them back safe and well.
The neighbours were told of their return, and a great meeting was held
that evening. All gathered round the two adventurers, who told them of
their strange experiences in the far country of the spirit birds. The
new seed, paddy, was produced, and the good qualities of rice as an
article of food explained. The different names of the sacred birds were
told to the assembled people, and all were warned to pay due respect to
their cries.

And so, according to the ancient legend, ended the old primitive life of
the Dyak, when he lived upon such poor food as the fruits of the jungle,
and any yams or potatoes he happened to plant near the house; the old
blind existence in which there was nothing to guide him; and then began
for him his new life, in which he advanced forward a step, and learnt to
have regularly, year by year, his seed-time and harvest, and to know
there were unseen powers ruling the universe, whose will might be learnt
by man, and obedience to whom would bring success and happiness.




CHAPTER XV

DYAK BELIEFS AND SUPERSTITIONS


The Dyaks do not worship idols, but they believe in certain gods and
spirits, who are supposed to rule over different departments of life,
and to these deities they make offerings and sing incantations at
certain times.

The following are the more important gods among the Dyaks.

Singalang Burong takes the highest position in honour and dignity, and
is the ruler of the spirit-world. It is doubtful what the word
_Singalang_ means, but _Burong_ means "bird," and probably _Singalang
Burong_ means "Bird Chief." The Dyaks are great observers of omens (see
Chapter XII.), and among their omens the cries of certain birds are most
important.

