Singalang Burong is also the god of war, and the guardian spirit of
brave men. He delights in fighting, and head-taking is his glory. When
Dyaks have obtained a human head, they make a great feast to the honour
of this god and invoke his presence. He is the only god ever represented
by the Dyaks in a material form--a carved, highly-coloured bird of
grotesque shape. This figure at the _Head Feast_ is erected on the top
of a pole, thirty feet or more in height, with its beak pointing in the
direction of the enemy's country, so that he may "peck at the eyes of
the enemy."

Next in importance to Singalang Burong is Pulang Gana, who is the god of
the earth. He is an important power according to Dyak ideas, and to him
offerings are made and incantations sung at all feasts connected with
_Farming_. They are entirely dependent upon his goodwill for a good
harvest.

Salampandai is the maker of men. He hammers them into shape out of clay,
and forms the bodies of children to be born into the world. There is an
insect which makes at night the curious noise--_kink-a-clink_,
_kink-a-clink_. When the Dyaks hear this, they say it is Salampandai at
his work. When each child is formed, it is brought to the gods who ask,
"What would you like to handle or use?" If it answer, "A sword," the
gods pronounce it a male; but if it answer, "Cotton and the
spinning-wheel," it is pronounced a female. Thus they are born as boys
or girls according to their own wishes.

[Illustration: A DYAK YOUTH]

The Dyak believes in the existence of spirits, and he thinks that
innumerable spirits inhabit the forests, the rivers, the earth, and the
air. Any unusual noise or motion in the jungle, anything which suggests
to the mind some invisible operation, is at once attributed by the Dyak
to the presence of some spirit, unseen by human eyes, but full of mighty
power. Though generally invisible, these spirits sometimes show
themselves. The form they assume then is not anything very supernatural,
but either a commonplace human form or else some animal--a bird, or a
monkey--such as is often seen in the forests. There is, however, the
chief of evil spirits, Girgasi by name, who, when seen, takes the form
of a giant about three times the size of a man, is covered with rough,
shaggy hair, and has eyes as big as saucers, and huge glittering teeth.

