There are innumerable stories told by Dyaks of their meeting with
spirits in the jungle, and sometimes speaking to them. Such stories
generally relate how the man who sees the spirit rushes to catch him by
the leg--he cannot reach higher--in order to get some charm from him,
but he is generally foiled in his attempt, as the spirit suddenly
vanishes. But some men, it is believed, do obtain gifts from the
spirits. If a Dyak gets a good harvest, it is attributed to some magic
charm he has received from some kindly spirit. Also, if he be successful
on the war-path, he is credited with the succour of some mysterious
being from the spirit-world.

The spirits, according to the Dyaks, rove about the jungle and hunt for
wild beasts, as the Dyaks do themselves. Girgasi, already mentioned, is
specially addicted to the chase, and the Dyaks say he is often to be met
hunting in the forest. There are certain animals who roam about in packs
in the jungle. These are supposed to be the dogs which accompany the
spirits when they are out hunting, and they attack those whom the
spirits wish to kill. I have never seen one of these animals, but to
judge from the description of them, they seem to be a kind of small
jackal. They will follow and bark at men, and from their supposed
connection with the spirits, are greatly feared by the Dyaks, who
generally run away from them as fast as they can.

The spirits are said to build their invisible habitations in trees, and
many trees are considered sacred, as being the abode of one or more
spirits, and to cut one of these trees down would be to provoke the
spirits' anger. The tops of hills are supposed to be the favourite
haunts of spirits. When Dyaks fell the jungle of the larger hills, they
always leave a clump of trees at the summit as a refuge for the spirits.
To leave them quite homeless would be to court certain disaster from
them.

From what has been said it will be seen that the spirits are much the
same as their gods, and have power either to bestow favours, or cause
sickness and death. They rule the conduct of the Dyak, and therefore
receive the same religious homage as their gods do.

