The Dyak worships his gods. He has good spirits to help him, and evil
spirits to harm him. He makes sacrifices to the gods and spirits, and
invokes their help in long incantations. He has omens and divination and
dreams to encourage or warn him. He believes he has a soul which will
live in another world, a future life differing little from his existence
in the flesh.




CHAPTER XVI

CONCLUSION


I have tried to tell you in the preceding chapters what the Dyaks of
Borneo are like, how they live, and what their religious ideas are. It
is sad to think of them living in constant fear of evil spirits, and
believing in such things as the omens of birds. All Christians must wish
these people to be taught about God. Christ came to earth to teach us
the Truths of the Gospel, and before He returned to Heaven, He told His
disciples, and, through His disciples, all Christians: "Go ye therefore,
and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things
whatsoever I have commanded you: and lo, I am with you alway, even unto
the end of the world." In obedience to this command, missionaries have
gone out to Borneo, and many people in England, who are not able to go
out to Borneo themselves, help in the good work by subscribing money to
the "Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts," which
sends missionaries to Borneo. Many of these missionaries live up-country
at some mission station far from the town. Here there is a mission house
where the missionary lives, a church where regular services are held,
and a school house where boys live and are taught.

As many of the long Dyak village houses are built at great distances
from each other, the missionary, who wishes to do good work among the
Dyaks, must not always live at his mission house, but must travel from
house to house. Only by visiting distant villages, and living with the
Dyaks as their guest, can the missionary learn to understand the people.

