Let me tell you a missionary story. A missionary in Borneo visited a
Dyak village house to teach the people there about God and our Lord
Jesus Christ. A crowd of men, women and children listened to him, and
many a long evening did the missionary spend, sitting on a mat in the
long public verandah of the Dyak house, and teaching those poor ignorant
people. A Dyak boy present asked the missionary if he might go back with
him to his school. The parents gave their consent, and the little boy
accompanied the missionary on his return to his mission house, and
attended the mission school. There, with other children, the boy was
taught the Truths of the Christian Religion. After being in school for a
few years, this boy returned to his Dyak home.

Years passed. The boy did not forget what he had been taught at school.
He saw the Dyaks among whom he lived, ruled by a fear of evil spirits,
and carrying out many superstitious ceremonies, which he knew must be
displeasing to God. As he grew older, he felt sad to think of the
ignorance of his relatives and friends, and of the Dyaks in other
villages. So he went back to the missionary and asked that he should be
taught more, so that, later on, he might teach his own people, and bring
some of them into God's Kingdom.

This is a true story of what has happened more than once in Borneo. A
boy learns about God in some up-country mission school, and on his
return to his Dyak home, is sorry to see the ignorance of his people,
and asks to be taught more, so that he may become a Catechist and carry
God's Truth to them.

When the seed is sown, it lies in the ground, and God sends the sunshine
and the rain to make it grow. So the Good Seed of the Word of God is
sown in the hearts of the Dyaks in Borneo, and we pray the Great Giver
of the Water of Life to refresh it with His Life-giving Holy Spirit.
Some seeds fall on the wayside, and the birds of the air devour them;
some fall on a rock, and are scorched by the heat of the sun; some fall
among thorns, and are choked; but, thank God, some fall on good ground
and bring forth good fruit.

