
THE RESURRECTION GOSPEL: A Study of Christ's Great Commission. By JOHN
ROBSON, D.D. Large crown 8vo, cloth 5s _net_

"While the Great Commission is commanding a constantly increasing
share of the Church's thought and activity, I have felt that there
is still the want of a connected study of all the records of it
contained in the Gospels and Acts, and unless these be studied
together its full scope and completeness cannot be
realised."--_From the Preface._


THE LIVING FORCES OF THE GOSPEL. Experiences of a Missionary in
Animistic Heathendom. By JOH. WARNECK, Lic. Theol., Superintendent of
Missions, Authorised Translation from the Third German Edition by the
Rev. NEIL BUCHANAN. Demy 8vo, cloth extra 5s _net_


MEDICAL MISSIONS: Their Place and Power. By the late JOHN LOWE,
F.R.C.S.E., Secretary of the Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society. With
introduction by Sir WILLIAM MUIR, K.C.S.L, LL.D., D.C.L. Fifth Edition,
with Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra 2s 6d

"It is a complete handbook of the subject, and contains not only
much information regarding the history of medical missions in
various parts of the world, but such wise counsel regarding the
training needful, and the right attitude of the missionary towards
the people and towards his profession, as only experience could
prompt."--_British Weekly._


CHRISTIANITY AND THE PROGRESS OF MAN: As Illustrated by Modern Missions.
By W. DOUGLAS MACKENZIE, M.A. Large crown 8vo, cloth extra 3s 6d

"It gives an account of the intellectual aspects of the work done
during the present century in evangelising the non-Christian
people of the world, discusses the relation of missionary
enterprise to the other civilising forces of modern times, and
sums up all by endeavouring to estimate the effect that
Christianity has had upon progress. Books about missionary work
are usually either read for their adventures, for their piety, or
for practical information concerning the history of a particular
mission. A work like the present, which gives what may be called
the philosophy of the subject, has a place of its own in the
literature to which it belongs, and deserves the attention of
thoughtful readers in its subject."--_Scotsman._

