On the death of his father he inherited a large sum of money, and found
himself in a position to carry out his schemes. He bought and equipped a
yacht, the _Royalist_, and for three years he cruised about, chiefly in
the Mediterranean, training his crew of twenty men for the hard work
that lay before them.

On October 27, 1838 he sailed from the Thames on his great adventure,
travelled slowly on the long journey round the Cape of Good Hope, and
reached Singapore in 1839. It took the _Royalist_ five months to reach
Singapore, but that was in the days before the Suez Canal was made. The
journey from England to Singapore can be made in a steam-ship at the
present time in less than a month.

On arriving at Singapore, James Brooke met a shipwrecked crew who had
lately come from Borneo. They said that they had been kindly treated by
Muda Hassim--a native Rajah in Borneo--and they asked Mr James Brooke to
take presents and letters of thanks to him, if he should be going
thither in his yacht. Mr Brooke had not decided which of the many
islands of the Eastern Archipelago he would visit, and he was as ready
to go to Borneo as to any other; so, setting sail, he made his way up
the Sarawak river, and anchored off Kuching, the capital, on August 15,
1839. The country was nominally under the rule of the Sultan of Brunei,
but his uncle, Rajah Muda Hassim, was then the greatest power in the
island. As he was favourable to English strangers, Mr Brooke paid him a
visit and was most kindly received. The Rajah was at this time engaged
in war with several fierce Dyak tribes who had revolted against the
Sultan, but his efforts to subdue them were vain. He told Mr James
Brooke his troubles, and begged him to help him to put down the
insurgents, and implored him not to leave him a prey to his enemies.
James Brooke consented to help him, and began the difficult task of
restoring peace in the country. With his help the rebellion, which the
Malay forces were too feeble to subdue, was brought to an end. Brooke
led the crew of his yacht, and some Malay followers against the
insurgents, and defeated them. Muda Hassim was very pleased to see that
order was restored in the country, and he conferred on James Brooke the
title of Rajah of Sarawak. It was some little time before the Sultan of
Brunei would consent to confirm the title, but in 1841 the Government of
Sarawak and its dependencies was formally made over to James Brooke, and
he became the first English Rajah of Sarawak. He ruled till 1868, when
he died and was succeeded by his nephew, Charles Johnson Brooke, who is
ruling Sarawak to-day.

