Had it been day, the eye, as far as it could reach, would have
rested upon thousands upon thousands of tree-tops, closely packed
together, and rising about thirty feet from the soil. The stems of
these trees did not reach the ground, but rested on knotty roots,
which, like arches, grew out of the earth. These roots were divided,
branching out in all directions, so that the trees might be likened to
many-footed creatures, the supports or legs of each of which crossed
and recrossed with those of its neighbour. Thus looking along the
ground might be seen a kind of tangled network under a thick canopy
of green, and that network again was entwined with gigantic creepers,
hanging in festoons from the singular archways and climbing upwards
into the tops of the trees.

By daylight, between those myriads of twisted roots forming, as it
were, a gigantic labyrinth, there might have been seen a swarming
mass of living things, unsightly and loathsome, which would have
filled the beholder with wonder and disgust.

There, among thousands of other living beings, lay the sluggish
alligator glaring at its prey with fixed and stony eye. There countless
tortoises and "Mimis" were crawling and darting about in quest of
food. There swarmed monstrous crabs and shrimps of all kinds, varying
in size from that of the largest lobster to the almost microscopical
sea-spider. All these in millions were wriggling in the filthy ooze
which was formed of the detritus of this singular mangrove forest. In
the mud which clung about the roots, these hideous creatures lived and
teemed, not perhaps in a state of perfect concord, yet maintaining an
armed kind of peace which did not prevent them from becoming allies
whenever some unhappy victim, whose luckless star had cast upon that
shore, had to be overpowered.

Close by the narrow strip of land, where, not only in storms but
in all weathers, land and water seemed to strive for the mastery,
there stood a small hut hidden away completely among a clump of
"Saoe" trees. These trees grew there, the only ones of their kind
amidst the gloomy forest of mangrove.

