Surrounded by the dense foliage as by an impenetrable wall, the hut was
completely invisible from the land. On the other side it commanded a
wide view of the sea; but even there it was screened from observation
by its position among the leaves.

We called it a hut,--it was, indeed, little more than a large sentry
box, and it, most appropriately, bore the name of "djaga monjet"
or monkey-perch. It was put together in a very primitive fashion,
and was covered with "Kadjang" mats and "attaps," both of these rough
building materials obtained from the Nipah palm.

The "djaga monjet" was built in the morass on piles which raised it
some considerable distance from the ground. Thus the waves which now
and then threatened to swallow up the fore-shore altogether, could
freely wash about under it, and break and divide against the firmly
driven stakes. The trunk of a tree, with some rough steps clumsily
cut into it, served as a ladder and gave access to the hut which,
at the time this tale begins, was wrapped in the deepest darkness,
but which yet was not tenantless.

Two voices might have been heard issuing from the doorway. The speakers
fancied they were talking in a confidential whisper; but the blustering
of the storm had gradually led them on to raise their voices, so that
now they were yelling at each other rather than conversing.

That, however, was of very little consequence. At such an hour,
and in such fearful weather, no human being would have dreamed of
prowling about there. The most zealous coastguard's man would have
declined that duty.

The men in the hut were talking in Malay, but they might, without
difficulty, have been recognised for Chinamen. Their guttural
pronunciation, the difficulty with which they sounded the letter
"r," which with them indeed was spoken as "l," and a certain lisping,
weakly, altogether most unpleasant accent, put the matter beyond doubt.

Yes, they were two Chinamen who, sitting in that little watch-house,
were eagerly, in the pitch dark night, scanning the angry sea before
them.

