"No," said one of them, after a considerable interval of silence--"No,
there is nothing whatever to be seen. In such weather, it would be
simply tempting fate. You may be quite sure that the Kiem Ping Hin
is snugly lying at anchor at Poeloe Karabab. She would never think
of starting in such a storm."

"You may be right," replied the other, "but the master's orders were
most positive. We are posted here on purpose to help the men of the
Kiem Ping Hin to get their cargo safe ashore."

"That is true enough, Than Khan, and we shall get our pay, I daresay;
but, for all that, you cannot deny that she cannot possibly come
in to-night. Just hark how the wind howls, hear how the breakers
roar--our perch is shaking like a reed. How would you like to be out
on such a night as this?"

"I," cried Than Khan, "not for all the money in the world. But still
we know the old Arab Awal Boep Said--he is a tough old sea-dog,
and no weather will--"

"Look out!" cried the other; "there, just there! You see that big
curling wave yonder! Look, you can just see it by the light of the
foam. Yes, by Kong! A 'djoekoeng!'"

"You are right, Liem King," replied Than Khan, "it is a 'djoekoeng'"
(a boat made of a hollowed tree-stem). "There were two persons in her,
both Javanese--I fancied a man and a woman."

"Yes," said Liem King; "the man was rowing hard, the woman seemed
frightened, she had her hands up to her face."

"The 'djoekoeng,'" shouted Than Khan, "was heading for the shore;
but she can never get through the breakers."

"I am not so sure of that," replied Liem King. "She was making
straight for Moeara Tjatjing, if she can only keep that course,
she may pull through."

"Why," said Than Khan, "in such a sea as this, no boat can live,
she must be swamped. A rare feast for the boajas, eh?"

"That 'djoekoeng,'" said Liem King, "will get through safe enough. I
made her out to be a surf boat, and you know it takes a good deal to
upset them."

"No doubt," said Than Khan, "for all that, I am glad enough I am not
in her."

