At these words the maiden cowered down in the most abject terror. The
two Chinamen exchanged a few hasty words in whispers in which the
name Lim Ho could be distinguished. That name seemed to have an
extraordinary effect upon the poor girl. When she heard it her face
became the very picture of terror.

This Lim Ho was one of the sons of the great opium farmer at Santjoemeh
and the man was madly in love with the poor little Javanese girl. He
had offered her large sums of money, he had tempted her with costly
gifts, but all in vain. He had addressed himself to her father, a poor
peasant in the "dessa" of Kaligaweh close by the principal township,
again without success. Then the wretch had sworn that, at any price,
the girl should be his, even if to possess her he might have to commit
a crime. He was a kind of scoundrel who would stick at nothing.

At the mention of that hateful name the girl recoiled and shrunk
together in terror. She knew the man, and now she also knew the two
rascals into whose power she had thus been thrown.

The two Chinamen kept on whispering to each other; they spoke in
Chinese of which language neither Ardjan nor Dalima knew a single word.

Before, however, the former had time to collect his thoughts or
his energies, the scoundrels were upon him. They tied up his hands
and feet with a thin rope which Liem King drew out of the capacious
pocket of his baggy trousers. Before he had time to defend himself
Ardjan found himself helpless, tied up in the shape of a hoop. But
even had there been time to resist, the poor fellow could have done
nothing. He was quite unarmed, he had not had time even to snatch up
his dagger-knife, and the frightful exertion of rowing the "djoekoeng"
through the breakers had so completely fagged him out, that, when the
men came upon him, he was lying panting for breath on the beach and
quite incapable of further exertion. The low moaning sound which had
guided the Chinamen to him was the sound of his gasping and panting
for breath as he lay on the shore.

