Having firmly secured Ardjan, the Chinamen took hold of Dalima and
pinioned her also, ordering her to keep perfectly quiet and threatening
to kill her should she disobey.

It was a good thing for Dalima that her captors could not see the
expression on her face as they uttered their threatening warning. There
passed over the girl's features an expression of contempt which would
have given them food for reflection; and might have induced them to
make quite sure of their fair prisoner. But of this they saw nothing,
and, thinking the girl safe enough, they turned to her companion. His
arms were tied behind him and fastened to his feet which had also
been tightly bound. Liem King now took up a stout bamboo stick which
had formed part of the rigging of the surf boat, and having passed
it under Ardjan's arms they each took hold of one end of the bamboo,
and put it on their shoulders, and then, with their living burden
thus helplessly dangling between them they ran at a slow trot up the
path, along which, a few minutes before, they had groped their way. At
every jolt the poor Javanese uttered a cry of anguish. It was torture
indeed that they made Ardjan endure. The whole weight of his body,
bent in the most constrained attitude, was bearing upon his arms,
and the whippy motion of the pliable stick made every movement almost
unendurable as the Chinamen jogged slowly along. The bones of the
arms upon which, as a sack, the entire body was hanging seemed at
every moment about to snap, and the limbs felt as if every jog must
wrench them from their sockets.

But neither Liem King nor Than Khan paid the slightest heed to Ardjan's
shrieks, they kept quietly trotting along. In vain did the wretched
man entreat them to kill him and so put him out of the misery he was
enduring. In vain, seeing his prayers unheeded, did he hurl the most
offensive epithets at the heads of his tormentors, hoping thus to
provoke them to rage and goad them on to take summary vengeance. To
all Ardjan's entreaties and insults, the Chinamen replied only with
derisive laughter, and the "Aso tjina" (Chinese dog) repeated again
and again, Than Khan, who had one hand free, repaid with a tremendous
blow with his fist, the effect of which was only to increase the
agony of the sufferer.

