In a few minutes, however, which to Ardjan seemed an age of torture,
the "djaga monjet" was reached. The ropes which tied Ardjan's feet were
then untied, leaving his arms only closely pinioned. The Chinamen then
ordered him to climb up the rough steps and enforced their command
by pricking him with the points of their daggers. The Javanese knew
well that the faintest show of resistance might cost him his life,
and now that the torture of dangling on the bamboo was no longer felt,
he began to take a more cheerful view of life. So he passively did as
he was told, and in a few moments he was at the top and inside the
hut. There the two brutes once again tied him up securely, and, in
order to make even an effort of flight impossible, they fastened his
hands tightly on his chest and forced the bamboo cane through the bend
of the elbows which were sticking out behind his back. Thus trussed
up, as it were, the least movement on the part of Ardjan occasioned
the most unbearable pain to his bruised and swollen limbs. Then,
they laid him down on his back on the floor of the hut, and to make
assurance doubly sure, they lashed him to one of the principal posts
of the small building.

Having made all safe, the Chinamen went off to fetch Dalima. What
they intended to do with the girl was a matter of dispute between
them. Liem King proposed that they should settle by a cast of the
dice which of them should possess her; but Than Khan, who was of a
more practical and covetous turn of mind, explained to his companion
that a good round sum of money might be got out of the son of the
rich opium farmer if they delivered her into his hands. They were
still debating the question when they reached the Tjatjing, where
they had left their victim lying on the grass. There they soon found
out that they need not have argued the matter at all; for though they
searched the whole place with the utmost minuteness, they could find
no trace of Dalima. Yes, they did find a trace; for behind a clump
of undergrowth close to the spot where they had left the girl, they
discovered the coil of rope with which they had bound her. She had,
evidently, somehow or other found means to get her wrists to her mouth,
and had succeeded in gnawing through the cords. Once her hands were
free it was mere child's play to untie her feet and legs.

