The Chinamen made no answer.

"Has she got away?" he asked again.

Than Khan shook his head. It was enough, there was something so doleful
in that gesture that Ardjan did not, for a moment, doubt. Dalima had
escaped. Now he could breathe more freely. If only he had been equally
fortunate. He had tried all he could to get rid of these accursed
ropes; but, alas! his arms hurt him so frightfully he thought they were
broken, and he had to give up the attempt in despair. Where might the
dear girl be now? He felt but little anxiety on that score. She had
managed, perhaps, to run to Kaligaweh, where her parents lived--the
distance was not great--she must, by this time, be close to the
dessa. Perhaps, she had taken the way to Santjoemeh, where lived the
family of the Resident, as she was in his service as nurse. In that
case, she would have a long journey before her, and she could not
reach it before daybreak. If only then she could at once tell her
whole story--then, yes, who knows, then he might even yet be rescued.

But all such reflections were roughly interrupted by Liem King,
who asked him, "Where did you come from on so wild a night as this?"

"I?" said Ardjan, "why, I have come from Santjoemeh, to be sure. I
intended to take Dalima to her father at Kaligaweh. The nor'-wester
drove us out to sea, I rowed with might and main to get to the Moeara
Tjatjing."

"What do you mean?" grinned Than Khan. "What business had you at
the Moeara? Oh, now I see, you wanted, no doubt, to pay us a visit
here! That is it--is it not?"

Ardjan trembled inwardly; but he replied calmly enough:

"I could not get as far as Sepoetran, and found myself drifting out
to sea, so I was compelled to make for the nearest land."

"But they have been after you," exclaimed Than Khan. "You have been
fired at."

"So I have," said Ardjan. "It must have been a boat of that wretched
Matamata, they must have taken me for a smuggler."

"Have you any stuff with you?" asked Than Khan. There was no reply to
that question. Had these Chinamen known in what position he really was,
they never would have asked him such a question as that.

