"But," continued Liem King, "you are mate of the Kiem Ping Hin. How
is it you are not on board of her?"

For a moment the Javanese did not know what to answer, then he said:

"Captain Awal Boep Said has given me leave to spend two days on shore."

"You go and tell your grandmother that tale, it won't do for
us. What! just at this time, when there is so much work on hand?" cried
Than Khan.

"Well," said Ardjan, "it is true, nevertheless."

"Very good," replied Than Khan, "the Company will soon get to know
all about that."

After these words there was silence.

The Chinamen wrapped themselves up in a kind of rug or mat, and sat
down cross-legged on the floor, with their heads bent forwards on
their breast, and thus they seemed to be falling into a doze. Ardjan,
still fastened up in the most painful way to the bamboo stick, had
to lie on his back. It was pitch dark in the hut; the door and the
shutters were closed to exclude, as much as possible, the cold morning
air. But, when every now and then the Javanese turned his head to the
right or left, he could, through the chinks of the lath floor, see
that day was breaking. A greyish light began to appear under the hut,
and thus Ardjan could see the filthy mud in which a number of crawling
things, such as sea-eels, marsh-snakes, iguanas, and water-lizards
were swarming. They were in quest of the miscellaneous offal which
they were wont to find under the "djaga monjet."

For a while all was quiet, when suddenly the report of a gun shook
the hut. The sound startled both the Chinamen to their feet. It
was evidently a signal. Than Khan rushed to the door, and threw it
open. It was then broad daylight, the sun was just about to rise,
and was bathing the eastern horizon in a flood of the richest purple.








CHAPTER II.

IN THE DJAGA MONJET.


For a moment or two, Than Khan stood rubbing his eyes, the sudden glare
of light almost blinded him after the darkness of the hut. As soon
as he became somewhat accustomed to the morning light, he perceived
that a great change had taken place in nature. The wind which had
been howling so dismally all night long had now fallen considerably,
and the thick black clouds were breaking up, while patches of clear
blue sky were becoming visible on all sides. The eastern horizon was
perfectly cloudless, and the sun rising in full glory was bathing
all he touched in the purest gold. It was a magnificent spectacle,
certainly, that morning of calm after the night of storm; but neither
Than Khan nor his companion seemed to pay the slightest heed to these
beauties of nature. The two Celestials were not troubling their minds
about the sun; they were eagerly scanning the surface of the sea,
and that not for the purpose of admiring the stately roll of the long
breakers; they were looking out for something quite different.

