Yonder, at a considerable distance from the shore, they could just
see a ship dancing on the waves. They could make her out with the
naked eye to be a schooner-brig, which, under shortened sail, was
lying close to the wind, and was evidently purposely keeping away
from the land. She had some kind of signal flying; but what it was
they could not make out. Liem King then produced a ship's telescope,
which was kept stowed away under the "attaps" in a corner of the roof,
and which had long since lost its original colour, being thickly
covered with a coating of dirt and dust.

The Chinaman handled the glass as one who was familiar with its use,
and, after looking for awhile, he turned to his mate, and said:
"The letters T.F.N.W. on a red ground. That must be the Kiem Ping
Hin. She ought to have come in last night, and--"

"She is trying to anchor, I suppose," said Than Khan.

"No, she is not," replied Liem King; "she is only trying to keep out
of the smuggling radius."

"Well," cried Than Khan, "that's cool enough anyhow. Why! only last
night we had the Matamata here."

"Why," said the other, "she is safe enough. Where she is now lying
the steamer could not get at her, and, what's more, she is flying
the British ensign. Under those colours no one will dare to meddle
with her. The Dutch are frightened to death of the English."

After looking through his glass at the schooner for a few moments
longer Liem King exclaimed: "They are lowering the boat!"

"Then one of us," said Than Khan, "will have to run to the landing
place at the Tjatjing."

"Very well, you go," said Liem King.

"No, you," said the other.

"Why should we not both go together?" asked Liem King.

"Certainly not," rejoined Than Khan. "Would you," he asked as he
pointed to Ardjan, "leave this fellow here alone and unwatched?"

"Perhaps you are right," assented the other, "let us toss up for it."

"All right," replied Than Khan, "I don't mind."

One of them then produced some white pebbles about the size of beans
among which there were a few black ones. With a certain amount of
dexterity he flung them upon a wooden board which seemed made for the
purpose. Liem King counted the throw to see how many black ones were
lying together.

