"Jolly stuff that black butter," said one of the fellows, as he
pointed to the barrels.

The small casks looked as if they had just come out of some Dutch
farmhouse. They were all sealed with green wax and bore the well-known
stamp of Van der Leeuw.

"I wish I could get hold of a couple of taël of that butter," said
another of the crew with a laugh.

"Well," said another, "you can be off presently to the opium den of
Babah Tjoa Tjong Ling and there you can get as much as you like of
it. You will find it easy enough to get rid of your hardly earned
wages."

In a few minutes all the tins and barrels were safely stowed away and
then the Javanese crew followed the steps of their Chinese masters
to the "djaga monjet."

When the five Chinamen had entered the little hut, the examination of
Ardjan, who was still lying on the floor in the same painful position,
was commenced at once.

On the way to the hut Liem King had told his master as much as he
deemed prudent about Ardjan's capture; but not a word did he breathe
about Dalima.

Lim Ho listened with attention to his report. This Lim Ho was a tall,
powerfully-built Chinaman. He was the chief of that band of smugglers,
about five-and-twenty years of age. He had a wan yellow complexion,
and a false, evil look in his slanting eyes.

When he heard it was Ardjan, the mate, who had been caught, he could
not repress a smile of satisfaction.

As soon as Liem King had made his report, he asked in a tone of
assumed indifference:

"Was the fellow alone when you came upon him?"

"Oh yes, quite alone," readily replied Liem King.

Lim Ho showed that he was greatly disappointed at the news.

"He came ashore in a 'djoekoeng,' I think you told me?" he asked.

"He did, sir," replied Liem King.

"Could the 'djoekoeng' have turned over at sea?" continued Lim Ho.

"Very likely," replied the wily Chinaman.

"When Than Khan and myself found the 'djoekoeng,'" he continued,
"Ardjan was lying exhausted and wet through on the beach--he looked
as if he had been washing about in the water, and the bamboos of the
rigging were smashed to pieces."

