"All right," said Lim Ho superciliously, "we shall hear all about
that presently."

As he entered the hut, he did not deign so much as to cast a look at
Ardjan; but abruptly asked him:

"What made you run away?"

"I was homesick," was the reply, "I was heartily sick of the ship
and wanted to get back to the 'dessa.'"

"Indeed!" sneered Lim Ho. "And that was the reason, I suppose, why
you took Dalima with you?"

Ardjan kept silence; Liem King and Than Khan were growing as pale
as death.

"Where was the girl drowned?" suddenly asked Lim Ho.

"Drowned," shouted Ardjan, "you say drowned. Have they drowned her,
then?"

"Have they drowned her?" said Lim Ho in a mocking tone of voice. "Was
not the 'djoekoeng' upset when the pair of you tried to run away in
her? Where did that take place? perhaps Dalima may somehow have been
able to get out."

"Able to get out," repeated Ardjan. "But the 'djoekoeng' did not
turn over at all," he exclaimed. "We both of us got ashore. She was
terribly frightened at the storm to be sure, but quite unhurt, and
I was completely exhausted with rowing."

"But," roared Lim Ho, "what has become of her, then?"

"That, I cannot tell you," replied Ardjan, "you must ask Liem King
and Than Khan."

These two worthies stood trembling with apprehension.

"Did you fellows hear that?" shouted Lim Ho in a towering passion. "Did
you hear that? I am waiting for you--what is your answer?"

"I do not know what has become of the girl," stammered Than Khan.

"She has, very likely, been devoured by a crocodile, for all I know,"
added Liem King.

"Did she get to land? Yes or no?" roared Lim Ho, while in his
impatience he stamped about the little hut, shaking it to its
foundations.

"She did," replied Ardjan. "Those two scoundrels first tied me up,
and then they bound Dalima's arms and legs. They brought me in here,
and after that they went out in quest of Dalima. But all I know is
they came back without her."

Lim Ho's piercing eyes were watching the two Chinamen as Ardjan
was speaking.

