"Come now," said he, "just you tell us how you managed to get Dalima
out of the Kiem Ping Hin. You knew well enough, did you not, that
I wanted the girl? But, look you, no lies! No lies, mind you! Your
life is in my hands; you are aware of that, I hope."

Ardjan could but utter a deep sigh. He begged that his hands might
be slackened if but a little. "To be trussed up like this," said he,
"is unbearable torture."

"No, no," laughed Lim Ho. "First let us hear what you have to say,
then we shall see what we can do for you."

Nevertheless he gave the order to remove the bamboo cane which had
so long tortured the poor Javanese, and as soon as that was removed
the Chinaman said:

"Now, speak up, I am listening to you!"

"You are aware," began Ardjan, "that I am mate on board the Kiem Ping
Hin. Yesterday afternoon we were lying at anchor behind Poeloe Kalajan
which is not far from Santjoemeh, when a 'djoekoeng' rowed up to us
in which a couple of your countrymen were seated. At first I thought
that they came alongside to take off some of the smuggled opium with
which the schooner is partly loaded. I, therefore, threw them a rope
and helped them up the ship's side. But, instead of coming to fetch
anything off, they brought something aboard with them. It was a heavy
sack which they carefully hoisted on deck, and which had something of
the appearance of a human form. However, that was no business of mine,
it was not the first time that I had seen that kind of thing going
on. I even lent a hand at carrying the load into the captain's cabin,
and I laughed and joked with the Chinamen at the fun Awal Boep Said
was going to have.

"When, shortly after, the captain came on board, I told him of the bit
of good luck that had befallen him, and I fancied he would be mightily
pleased. Not a bit of it, instead of at once rushing down into his
cabin, he quietly remained on deck, simply ordering me to keep a sharp
look out as he was expecting some friends. And, true enough, a few
hours later you, Lim Ho, came on board with two of your followers. You
reached the schooner just in time. Night was rapidly falling, and a
north-westerly storm was blowing up. No sooner were you aboard than it
began to blow furiously. The moment I saw you, an unpleasant feeling
came over me, and quite involuntarily my thoughts at once flew to
the sack which I had helped to get aboard, and which then was lying
on the bed in the cabin. I longed to get away down below to have a
look; but the captain, who was watching the storm that was brewing,
ordered the men to the braces and had a second anchor brought out. I
had, of course, to take my share of duty and could not leave the deck.

