"When, an hour or so after, I got to the cabin, I found you there
stretched out on a couch. You were hard at it smoking opium, your pipe
was in your hand, and with evident satisfaction you were swallowing
down the smoke.--

"I knew well enough what all this meant. A man whose senses are dulled
and deadened by habitual excess, must find something to rouse him. I
knew that you had some little pigeon in your clutches, and that you
were seeking to recruit by opium your exhausted powers. Your object
was to get the greatest possible amount of enjoyment out of your
victim--You know the properties of opium, and how to make use of it.

"Now all this did not concern me, I merely chuckled--I thought, that's
a common thing enough! I remember a hadji telling me that opium is
a gift of Ngahebi Mohammed, and the ever-blessed in Paradise use it
to renew their strength and thus are for ever beloved by the houris.

"But yet, I could not get rid of that strange feeling that told me all
was not well. I could not get rid of my anxious curiosity. Dalima has
long ago been promised to me by her parents. She is to be my wife as
soon as I can get together a few more 'ringgiets' which will enable me
to purchase a yoke of oxen. The day on which I can get them together,
is to be my wedding-day.

"But Lim Ho," and at these words the voice of the Javanese began to
hiss and assume an almost threatening tone, "but Lim Ho, I know also
that you covet the maiden,--I know what treasures you have offered
her--I know what sums you have offered her parents as the price of
her virtue, and of her innocence.

"I made up my mind--I must see who was there in the cabin.--Oh! I
had not, at that time, the least suspicion that it was Dalima! She
had rejected all your advances with the utmost contempt. Her father
had even threatened to kreese you. How could the 'baboe' of the Ioean
Resident have come into your power?--You see it was impossible!"

"Yes, yes, as you say it was quite impossible," said Lim Ho with a
grin, excited by the story of Ardjan. "I say, Ong Kwat, just tell us
how the girl came into your hands!"

