"No need of that," resumed Ardjan, "I know all about it. Dalima told
me the whole story in the 'djoekoeng.' Yesterday she was out for a walk
with her master's youngest child in the lane behind the Residence. The
boy in his play, flung his ball into a ditch by the side of the road. A
Chinaman happened to be passing at the time and Dalima requested him to
fetch the toy out of the water. He did so at her request; but instead
of returning the ball to the child he pitched it as far as he could
into the garden. The boy ran off eagerly to fetch it, and Dalima was
looking after the child, when suddenly the Chinaman flung himself upon
her, gagged her, and before she could utter a single cry threw a sack
over her head. Thus muffled he dragged her to the end of the lane, and
put her into a 'djoekoeng' which was lying in the ditch. The boat at
once put off, and in an hour's time was alongside the Kiem Ping Hin."

"Just so!" exclaimed Lim Ho. "Now, Ong Kwat, is not that just about
how you managed it?"

The man thus addressed grinned, nodded his head and added, "Yes,
master, for four whole days I had been on the prowl for that catch."

"Now, Ardjan," resumed Lim Ho, "you may go on again; but mind you,
no lies."

The Javanese continued: "As I entered the cabin I gave a hasty
look round. You, Lim Ho, were partially unconscious, still smoking
opium. You had not got to that stage when the drug excites the passions
to madness. Your attendant was intent upon kneading the 'mandat'
balls. There was no one in the cabin but you two, so I ventured
to creep in, and, by the light of the lamp that was burning there,
I saw--Dalima.

"With one bound I was at her side, in an instant I had severed the
ropes which tied her, and in another moment I had dragged her out of
the cabin. Thereupon I flew forward, got some clothes which I happened
to have by me, and in a few seconds was back again with them. Dalima
slipped them on, and thus partially disguised I hid her under a heap
of sails which happened to be lying in the stern.

