"Meanwhile the storm was raging in all its fury, and I have no doubt
that it was chiefly owing to the noise of the wind that we had been
able to get clear of the cabin unperceived. Captain Awal Boep Said,
like a good Mussulman, was telling his beads, and from time to time
uttered an 'Allah achbar' (God is great), or a 'Bismillah' (God be
praised). The other men were all taking shelter in the forecastle,
and your servants were lying sea-sick in their bunks.

"Of these favourable circumstances I made the best use I could. The
'djoekoeng,' in which Dalima had come alongside, was still lying there
dancing on the waves. I took hold of the painter and drew the boat
up to the side. The girl slid down into her along a rope which was
hanging over the ship's side. I followed her, seized upon a paddle
and then I cast her adrift, and the storm soon drove us far from the
Kiem Ping Hin.

"I was in hopes that I might succeed in reaching that part of the beach
which lies nearest to the Resident's house; but when the 'djoekoeng'
got under the Poeloe Kalajan the wind got hold of her and we had to
drift at the mercy of the waves.

"Then I managed to set the wings which were lying in the bottom
of the boat. Without them we must certainly have capsized and been
drowned. I kept on rowing with all my might; for I knew that once we
were driven past the cape there would be an end of us. At length--at
length--I managed to struggle through the breakers. One more effort
and we were safe at the Moeara Tjatjing! The moment danger was over I
fell down utterly exhausted, and, before I had time to recover Than
Khan and Liem King had discovered us. They pinioned us both, Dalima
and me. Me they carried off to this hut; what has become of the girl I
don't know. I have not seen or heard of her since. Now then, Lim Ho,"
said he in conclusion, "that is the whole truth."

For a short time silence was preserved, Lim Ho seemed to reflect
on what he had heard, and no one in the hut ventured to disturb
his reflections.

