At length he spoke, turning to Than Khan and Liem King, and said:

"Well, what have you to say to all that?" Neither of them answered
a word.

"Do you intend to answer, yes or no?" roared Lim Ho in a furious
passion, as he dealt Than Khan, who lay bound on the floor, a heavy
kick in the side.

"The Javanese lies," cried the Chinaman, writhing with pain. "We have
seen nothing of the girl!"

"He probably got her off into the woods," added Liem King, "before
we came up."

"I would gladly have given my life for Dalima," cried Ardjan, "but
I was lying on the beach utterly prostrate; I could not defend her,
sir, I could not defend myself. I am telling you the truth. These
two scoundrels must know what they have done with her!"

Lim Ho muttered a few words to himself and appeared to be thinking
what he would do next, when voices were heard outside the hut, the
voices of the boat's crew who had been hunting for Dalima, and were
now returning with the tidings that their search had been fruitless,
and that they had nowhere been able to find the girl.

Ardjan's face gleamed with satisfaction as he heard it, and he at
once grew calmer.

"Unless," said one of the Javanese boatmen, holding up a coil of rope,
"you call this a trace of her. I found this close by the spot where
we landed."

Lim Ho fixed his eye upon the two wretched spies. They held their
peace, that silent proof effectually closed their mouths.

"These are," said Ardjan, in a much quieter tone of voice than that
in which he had spoken before, "these are the cords with which they
bound Dalima's wrists and ankles. I recognise them perfectly."

Lim Ho hereupon uttered but two words; but they were words which
caused Ardjan and Liem King and Than Khan to shudder with terror. In
most abject terms they prayed for mercy. But Lim Ho remained deaf
to all their entreaties, he scarcely deigned to cast a look at them;
but now and then in his cold rage he would deal a savage kick at the
body of one or the other of the prostrate Chinamen.

