In a few abrupt words he gave his orders to the Javanese crew. Whatever
his commands might be, his men were but too ready to carry them out. A
couple of them at once left the hut while the others set Ardjan and
the two Chinamen upon their legs and prepared to take them out of
the cabin.

"Oh, sir, have pity, have mercy upon us!" Than Khan exclaimed in
truly piteous accents.

"Where is Dalima?" was the furious rejoinder.

"We don't know where she is!" cried both the Chinamen.

"And you!" shouted Lim Ho turning to Ardjan; "do you know what has
become of her?"

"I know nothing about it," was the reply. "I think that most probably
she may have got back to the Residence."

"Have mercy, have mercy!" shrieked Liem King.

"What? mercy on such brutes as you?" scornfully said Lim Ho.

"But," they asked; "what harm have we done?"

"I will tell you what you have done," sneered Lim Ho. "You have had
Dalima in your power and you have been pleased to let her go. That's
what you have done and you shall suffer for it. And you!" he hissed
out in fury, as he turned to Ardjan, "you have dared to carry the
girl away. Oh, you shall pay for it!"

"But she is my bride," pleaded the wretched man.

"Your bride, indeed," said Lim Ho with concentrated rage. "Your
bride? Do you think a pretty girl like Dalima is destined to be the
bride of a Javanese dog like you? But it was last night that you
carried her off from the Kiem Ping Hin. Might you perhaps in that
'djoekoeng'--"

A disgusting leer of disappointed passion passed over the features
of Lim Ho as he uttered the half finished question.

"No, no, by Allah!" fiercely exclaimed the Javanese. "Dalima is as
pure as the white flower of which she bears the name. But," added he
in a calmer mood, "you know better than that. You know that in such
weather as we had last night I had very little time for trifling
and love-making."

"That's lucky for you," cried Lim Ho; "had you so much as touched her
too freely I would this very moment drive my kreese into you. As it is,
I will simply punish you for having run away. I will consent to forget
that Dalima is anything to you. But," he added with an odious smile,
"you seem to forget that the matter is somewhat serious for you. You
ran away, remember, to give the coastguard notice of the arrival and
of the movements of the Kiem Ping Hin--"

