"That is not true," hastily interrupted Ardjan.

"That, you see, amounts to treachery--treachery to the Company,"
continued Lim Ho without taking the slightest notice of Ardjan's
indignant denial. "It's a serious matter as you know."

"I tell you it is all a lie," cried the wretched Javanese, driven to
despair by the other's manner. "It is all a lie. I ran away to save
Dalima from your filthy clutches; you may drive your dagger into me
for that, but I am no traitor."

"I tell you again," replied Lim Ho with perfect calmness, "that
your intention was to betray the secrets of the Company. You know
the laws of the Company, do you not? I will therefore give you the
same punishment as to those two scoundrels. I will then have you
put on board the Kiem Ping Hin; not as her mate; oh, no, but simply
as a slave; and you will be put ashore at Poeloe Bali and there you
will have to remain on pain of death. You will remain there, I say,
as long as ever the Company shall see fit."

"Oh no!" wildly cried Ardjan, "not that, anything but that; rather
kill me at once. I have not played the spy; I am no traitor. I will
not, I cannot live away from Dalima!"

The face of Lim Ho plainly showed the bitter hatred he felt towards
his rival--a hatred the more intense because he knew that Ardjan
possessed the fair young girl's heart.

He did not, however, vouchsafe any further reply; but gave a sign to
the boatmen.

With blows and kicks they drove the prisoners before them down the
rough steps. They revelled in the brutality which they were allowed
to show to these unhappy wretches.

With their hands tightly bound behind their backs the three were half
driven, half pushed down, and being quite unable to steady themselves
they tumbled down into the filthy mud beneath and grovelled there
amidst the shouts of laughter of their tormentors until they were
again roughly put on their feet.

Lim Ho and his pig-tailed companions heartily joined in the merriment
and thus encouraged the rough sailors in their unmerciful handling
of the miserable captives.

