As soon as they had arrived at the spot, Lim Ho made a signal to
his men. In an instant the prisoners had their clothes torn from
their bodies, and stark naked they were firmly lashed to the smooth
stems of three palm trees. The ropes, which had already served to
confine the limbs of Dalima, now were used to tie Ardjan and the
two Chinese spies to the trunks of these trees, which, to them,
were to become stakes at which they were destined to endure the most
excruciating agony. The victims knew well what was in store for them,
and kept anxiously looking round to see what would happen; their
eyes, however, glaring around with wild terror, could not, at once,
discover what they sought, and what they were every moment dreading
to see. Although the tropical sun was burning down on their backs,
yet they were trembling in every limb, as if shivering with cold;
their hands were fastened high up above their heads, and the ropes
were passed round their loins and knee-joints. Thus they could not
make the slightest movement without extreme pain, for the ropes being
plaited of "Iemoetoe" were hard, rough, and prickly.

Suddenly Than Khan uttered a startled cry, he had been anxiously
looking round, and he now saw a couple of sailors coming up from the
wood, each carefully bearing a bundle of leaves. The wretched man
knew at a glance that the hour of torture was at hand. The leaves
which the sailors bore well deserve description. They were broad and
heart-shaped, and were attached to twigs resembling brushwood. The
edges of the leaves were roughly jagged like the teeth of a saw, and
their upper and under surfaces were covered with white hairy down. They
were leaves of the "Kamadoog," the devil thistle, the most terrible
plant perhaps which the earth produces. With infinite precaution--a
precaution which needs no explanation--the Javanese sailors made, of
these leafy twigs, three broom-like scourges, around the handles of
which they carefully wrapped some grass and bits of rag. When he saw
his men thus armed, Lim Ho gave the signal to begin. Three sailors
stepped up to the victims, and with the twigs began to strike their
backs, their loins, their thighs, and the calves of their legs. Then
was enacted a hideous, but most curious scene. It was not, properly
speaking, any scourging at all, the blows which they inflicted were as
light as possible; they rather flipped or stroked the flesh of their
victims, and it looked as if they were engaged in simply driving away
insects or troublesome flies from the naked bodies. Now and then,
one or other of them would give a somewhat harder flip, as if some
obstinate fly refused to be dislodged from the spot. But the features
of the unfortunate wretches, who were suffering this apparently playful
scourging, were in horrible contrast with the seeming gentleness of
the treatment. The faces of Ardjan and of his companions in misfortune
were actually distorted with terror, their eyes were starting from
the sockets. Wherever those dreadful leaves lightly fell on the skin,
the body at once shrunk away in pain, the limbs began to quiver,
the muscles began to work up and to stiffen in knots, as if drawn
together by violent cramp. But still that gentle flicking and stroking
went on. The sufferers began to writhe and twist about their bodies
in intolerable anguish. Still the heartless executioners went on
with their hideous task. The miserable victims panted for breath,
a low, most pitiful moaning escaped from their lips; they gnashed
their teeth with agony, they bit their lips until the blood came;
but all to no purpose--nothing could bring them relief.

