At length the instruments of torture had become well nigh stripped,
there was left in fact only the bare twigs, on which here and there
a few tattered leaves were still dangling, the poisonous leaves lay
scattered in all directions, faded, torn, and shapeless about the
feet of the sufferers. But, even then, Lim Ho did not think of causing
the torture to cease, he seemed to be bent on utterly destroying his
victims. He ordered the men to stop for a few moments. It was not
because he felt any pity. Not at all, he merely caused the half dead
bodies to be sprinkled with salt water, which, if possible, augmented
the torments they endured. The monster was, in fact, on the point
of resuming his inhuman flogging, when suddenly a cry was raised,
"The police, the police!"

In furious haste Lim Ho and his assistants flew up to the tortured
Chinamen. In a moment they had severed the cords which bound them
to the trees, and the next instant they were dragging the wretches
who were curling and twisting in their agony along the rough path
which led to the landing-place where their boat lay moored. Two
of Lim Ho's men would have performed the same office for Ardjan,
but the shouts of the rescuing party became louder every instant,
the men were stricken with panic, took to their heels, and with all
speed rejoined their retreating comrades.

They got to the boat just in time, for they had no sooner got into her,
before five or six policemen led on by Dalima and closely followed
by a crowd of people came to the spot.

"Allah," exclaimed the young girl as she caught sight of Ardjan, who
was still tied up to the tree, moaning with pain, and whose almost
lifeless body was hanging like a sack in the somewhat slackened ropes;
"Allah, what in the world have they done to him!"

In a moment the unfortunate man was surrounded, his bonds were severed,
and he was laid down gently on a mat which somebody had run to fetch
from the little watch-house. But he could not utter a word. He yelled
with pain, and rolled about on the ground writhing like a crushed worm.

