"Oh, my God!" he moaned most piteously, "I am in pain! in pain!"

"Where is the pain?" cried Dalima, as she sat crouching down beside
him.

"It is the kamadoog," the sufferer managed to say between his sobs
of anguish.

"The kamadoog!" cried the bystanders in horror.

It was plain enough now. One of the spectators had taken up a few torn
leaves, and at once recognised the terrible nettle. Every man in the
crowd turned pale with horror. And truly the kamadoog is a dreadful
plant. The slightest contact with its formidable leaves occasions
a violent itching, painful as a severe burn; and, when used as an
instrument of torture, it causes the most intolerable suffering,
for at least seven days; it makes the limbs stiffen, and produces a
burning fever, which not unfrequently ends in the most painful death.

"Has anyone here any 'sirihkalk?'" (chalk made of sea-shells)
cried Dalima.

Some few of the bystanders had with them the "sirih," which they
are fond of chewing. They unwrapped the sirih-leaf in which were the
pinang-nut, the chalk, and the tobacco, which form this highly-prized
chew, and gave the chalk to the girl, who hastened to anoint the
sufferer with the paste-like alkali. But, unfortunately, so great
was the surface which had been exposed to the stroke of the hairy
leaves, that the supply of "sirih-chalk" was altogether inadequate,
and only a very small portion of the blisters could be treated with
the remedy. Dalima was in despair. There was nothing else for it
but to carry Ardjan into the hut, which afforded a shelter from the
burning sun. Then some of the men hurried away to fetch a supply
of oil and chalk, which they hoped would mitigate the pain, and
check the fever. By evening, if all were well, Ardjan might perhaps
have so far recovered as to bear the fatigue of being moved to more
convenient quarters.

While these remedies were being applied to poor Ardjan, the boat in
which Lim Ho had put off, was being rowed past the djaga monjet,
and was getting out of the little bay. The policemen stood on the
shore calling to the crew to come back; but no one took the slightest
notice of their summons, and, as they had no firearms with them to
enforce obedience, the only reply they got was a derisive cheer,
and a shout of defiance.

