As he rowed by the djaga monjet, Lim Ho had plainly recognised Dalima,
who, actively employed in assisting her tortured lover, was running
about, in and out, here and there.

The sight of her literally maddened the brutal Chinaman; he was on
the point of ordering his boat's crew to return and row to land. But,
in another instant, he came to himself, and recovered his reason. It
would indeed have been the act of a madman to try and carry off the
girl just then. He knew that he could place great dependence upon
the power of his gold; but yet, in full daylight, in the very face
of all those people, he felt he could hardly try its influence upon
the native police. So he could only shake his fist in impotent rage,
and the word to return remained unspoken.

The boat swiftly glided out of the Moeara Tjatjing, and at once made
for the Kiem Ping Hin, which was already loosening her sails, and
waiting impatiently for the return of her boat's crew. As they mounted
the deck, Captain Awal Boep Said came up to report to Lim Ho that
the smoke of a steamer could just be seen on the horizon. "Probably,"
he added, "it is the Matamata, she was here yesterday."

"Those white blockheads," muttered Lim Ho, with a scornful laugh. "At
night they have their coloured lights up, and we can tell them miles
away. By day they take care to send up a cloud of smoke which no one
can mistake. I will bet they have not discovered us yet, while we
have had our eye on her ever so long ago."

"It is the guard-ship, sir, likely enough. What are your orders?" said
the captain.

"The wind has risen somewhat with the sun," replied Lim Ho. "Set sail
at once, and steer for Bali."

A quarter of an hour later, the Kiem Ping Hin was gracefully heeling
over to the freshening breeze, and, under full sail, was flying to
the eastward. When, much later on, the Matamata came to the Moeara
Tjatjing, the smuggler, an excellent sailing craft, was on the horizon;
she was nothing more than a faint white speck on the deep blue sea. The
clumsy old guard-ship, which, under favourable circumstances, could
not make more than six knots, and might perhaps do eight knots under
extra pressure, had not the smallest chance of overtaking the rakish
schooner, running eleven knots before the breeze. In less than an hour,
the vessels were out of sight of one another altogether.

