At the sound the young girl gave a sudden start, she dropped her
book and springing up from her seat, "Siapa ada?" (who is there)
she cried half in terror, half in surprise.

The daughter of the Resident stood there for a few moments in the
rays of the early sun, a perfect picture of loveliness. Her forehead
of the purest ivory-white was surrounded by a rich mass of glossy
dark-brown curls, her nose and chin might have served as models to a
sculptor. But, though the features were faultlessly regular, the whole
face was full of animation and of life. The lips of the rosiest red
and of exquisite form resembled a freshly opened rosebud, the cheeks
were tinged with the glow of health and the large deep-brown eyes were
full of tenderness and plainly spoke of a gentle and loving disposition
within. The neck and bust of the young girl were modestly veiled under
the folds of a tastefully arranged "Kabaja" which, however, could not
hide the well-filled and perfectly rounded form it strove to conceal.

"Who is there?" she had cried as startled she had sprung up from
her chair.

"It is I, Nana," whispered Dalima in a scarcely audible voice.

The fair young girl, whom we have tried faintly to depict to the
reader, was called Anna. In ordinary conversation the servants
usually addressed her as "Nonna" (Miss). But Dalima, either by reason
of her youth or it may be because she was shy and gentle of nature,
was Anna's special favourite and enjoyed certain privileges with her
young mistress over the other servants; she was indeed looked upon in
the light of a companion, and so she always used to call her "Nonna
Anna" which was first contracted into "Nonanna," and then became simply
"Nana." Thus the reader will perceive that the name "Nana" has nothing
whatever in common with Zola's disgusting production, nor yet with
the inhuman monster who made himself so sadly notorious at Cawnpore.

At the words "It is I, Nana," Anna looked down and no sooner saw Dalima
seated at her feet than she recovered from her scare. She offered to
raise the maiden who, however, maintained her position on the floor
of the verandah. "You here, Dalima," cried she; "where in the world
have you been? Mamma is dreadfully angry with you. Where have you
come from?"

