"Nana," she replied, "I have been carried off!"

"By whom?" asked Anna.

"By some of Lim Ho's men," said Dalima.

"Lim Ho?" cried Anna now really frightened, "Lim Ho? What, have you
been in his power?"

"Yes I have," said the young girl.

"What, all night?"

"No," replied Dalima, "No, not all night; Allah has been my protection
and--"

"So, so! That gadabout has come home at last, has she?" cried a voice
which caused both the girls to start with terror.

It was Anna's mother, who just then came into the pandoppo without
having been noticed either by her daughter or by Dalima.

She came straight from her bathroom as was evident from the rich black
hair which flowed waving down her back, and had completely wetted
the kabaja she wore, while she had covered her neck and shoulders
with a bathing-towel of the finest material.

Bending her head backwards she drew the towel from under her hair
and handed it to the nènèh (old Javanese woman) who followed her,
with the order to go and dry it immediately.

Madam Laurentia van Gulpendam, whose maiden name was Termolen,
was a stately matron, fully thirty-five years of age, and was still
extremely beautiful. Years and maternity had not made much impression
upon her charms. She had but one child, Anna, and fearing that the
natural duties of a mother might impair her beauty, she had confided
her daughter to the care of a nurse. In spite, however, of all
precautions, the influence of time was now beginning to make itself
felt, and though it could not be denied that Laurentia carried the load
of years proudly enough, yet lately she had found the necessity of
bringing certain powders and certain mysterious toilette-confections
into requisition, to help out the somewhat fading complexion and
(to use an elegant expression of her husband who had had something
to do with the sea, and was always interlarding his conversation
with nautical terms) to caulk here and there an indiscreet, and too
obtrusive wrinkle. Here and there also a silver thread might have
been detected among the wealth of jet-black hair, had not the Nènèh
Wong Toewâ, been anxiously watchful, and at its very first appearance
plucked out the traitor. The finely formed lips also had begun to
lose somewhat of their bright carnation; and the corners of the mouth
were beginning to droop. But for these tokens of advancing age also,
the nènèh was on the watch. For preserving the mouth she had a sourish
kind of fluid prepared from the red ant which she used as "vinaigre
de toilette," and for the wrinkles she had an ointment made of the fat
of lizards, in which when boiling hot sundry scorpions and centipedes
had met a painful death. But Nènèh Wong Toewâ was moreover an old,
experienced doctoress, and she had many other wonderful secrets in her
possession which she placed at the disposal of her mistress; and if the
stately Laurentia still kept her lawful lord and master enthralled by
her charms,--if the world around was still bound to confess that she
was a fine woman,--if her waist, her shoulders, her bosom did still,
in a ball-room, attract the greedy, admiring eyes of the men, and
awakened envy among the ladies--then to Wong Toewâ a great share of
these much coveted honours was due, and often from behind a screen the
old crone would stand unobserved and enjoy the triumph of her mistress,
and delight in the homage which followed her wherever she went.

