Laurentia Termolen was the daughter of a former resident, and was
an exceedingly handsome and agreeable girl when, at the tender
age of sixteen, she became the wife of Mr. van Gulpendam who, at
that time, was controller of the Home Department, and her father's
right hand. Though born in India she was of European parents, both
on the mother's and father's side: and she had had the advantage
of an excellent education, that is to say, large sums of money had
been lavishly spent upon her. She had had the very best masters in
language, in music, in dancing, &c., she had even been sent to Holland
to receive the finishing touches. Now, under ordinary circumstances,
she might--nay she would have developed into an excellent woman; but
unfortunately for her, these ordinary and favourable circumstances were
wanting. For both papa and mamma were people of inordinate ambition,
and had, moreover, or perhaps in consequence of that ambition, one
ruling passion, the love of display. They wanted to make a great
figure in their little world, and to keep up an immense amount of
outward show. But all this cost money, much money, very much money,
and the means whereby they sought to obtain the necessary dross,
were not always such as would bear honest scrutiny. From her earliest
childhood, Laurentia had heard snatches of conversation, later on
she had been present at incidents, and had witnessed family quarrels,
in which dishonesty and prodigality strove for the mastery. Thus her
young mind had, of necessity, been poisoned, and germs of corruption
had been planted within her which were sure to bring forth the most
lamentable results.

If now, in Holland, she had but fallen into good hands, all this might,
to a great extent at least, have been remedied, and the poisonous
germs within her might perhaps have been stifled or their growth might
have been checked. But hers had been the case of so many Indian-born
children. She had always been looked upon as an object of financial
speculation, she had always been considered as a kind of gold mine
which her parents intended thoroughly to work and make the most
of. Thus a mere outward veneer of good manners and a mare "jargon
de bon ton" were thought amply sufficient; and of true education and
moral development there had, with her, never been any question at all.

