Now, had but van Gulpendam been the right man for it, he might even at
the time of their marriage have made a total change in the disposition
of the young girl entrusted to his care. But van Gulpendam was a
man who had gone to India merely to make his fortune, and had but
one object, namely, to return as soon as possible, and especially
as rich as possible, to his own country. He was therefore the very
last man to set an example of honesty and purity, and his intimacy
with the Termolens had done nothing to counteract the evil that was
in him. Money-making was his only passion, and his union with fair
Laurentia had only served to make that sordid principle strike deeper
roots into his heart.

After her marriage Laurentia's duty was to follow her husband, who
took good care to obtain from his father-in-law none but places in
the interior and most remote parts of the island. Thus he had become
controller at Brandowo; after that, Assistant Resident at Bandjar
Oetara; both of these places where hardly a single European could
be found, and where consequently no one could watch the dodges and
tricks of the official household.

How he had managed to be on the most excellent terms with the Regent
who exacted taxes in kind, and at the same time also had the most
cordial relations with the representatives of the opium farmers,
who found it necessary to throw dust into the eyes of the Dutch
authorities; and how she had lent out money to the natives on the
most exorbitant interest for which she did not scruple to take,
as securities, valuable articles such as jewels and heirlooms, all
these dirty transactions had remained a profound secret and had not
prevented van Gulpendam from rising to the position of full Resident.

This long isolation had, moreover, the most pernicious effect upon
his grasping character, and upon the no less ambitious disposition of
his young wife. By continual contact with none but inferiors who bowed
down to them to the very ground, the bearing of Laurentia had grown to
be intolerably arrogant. She had become imperious woman personified,
and this grave blemish in her character was so entirely in harmony
with her outward appearance, that when she had to appear in public
on official occasions in the full dignity of "Resident's wife" she
might have served as model for a Juno.

