As soon as she was gone Laurentia in feverish haste and with heaving
bosom turned to Dalima and said:

"Well, what then?"

Oh! poor Dalima understood that look so well, and little as she knew
of the world she knew so well why the "nonna" had been sent away. She
repressed her emotion however, and calmly enough she said:

"Lim Ho went to smoke opium."

"Of course, of course," said Laurentia, huskily, "of course he went to
smoke opium, before--" It is utterly impossible to convey in words any
idea of the expression on the face of Laurentia van Gulpendam as she
allowed the word "before" to slip from her lips. Those wildly gleaming
eyes, that projecting slightly quivering jaw, those half-open lips
which allowed the breath to pass with a slightly hissing sound, and
that full bosom heaving convulsively under the wet kabaja--all these
were the visible signs of passion raging unrestrained within. That
face betrayed the whole story, aye and even betrayed her regret that
van Gulpendam did not smoke opium.

"Well," she said at length, after having for a few moments stared at
Dalima; "well, and what happened then?"

"Nothing happened at all," was Dalima's quiet reply.

"Nothing," cried Laurentia; "that's a lie! Lim Ho would have had you
carried to his ship merely to--"

"Before he had done smoking," hastily interposed Dalima, "I was
rescued."

"Rescued! rescued! By whom?"

"By Ardjan," replied the girl, trembling more violently than before.

"By Ardjan? by Ardjan?" shouted her mistress. "Oh! you filthy
creature. Now I see it all. Of course you ran away from 'master Leo'
to go and have a game with your Ardjan, and now you want to put it
all upon Lim Ho. Wait a bit, I will--

"Gulpendam!" she shouted, "Gulpenda-a-m!" So shrill and so sharp
sounded her voice as she thus called for her husband, that a couple
of servants came rushing in thinking something terrible must have
happened.

"Call your master!" she cried to them.

"Pardon, madam, pardon!" cried poor Dalima in wailing tones.

