"No, no," said her mistress, "no pardon for a creature like you."








CHAPTER IV.

THE PLOT THICKENS.


Mr. van Gulpendam came rushing in.

Stately and dignified as was the "Kandjeng toean Residèn" (High and
mighty Lord Resident), yet when fair Laurentia called in that tone
of voice he became briskness personified. A wicked world, indeed,
whispered that on such occasions he dared not for his life be one
whit less nimble.

The resident was, like his fair spouse, in undress; he had on only
a pair of pyjamas and a "Kabaja," and in this airy costume was
seated in the outer fore-gallery of the spacious residence, engaged
in leisurely sipping his coffee and enjoying his morning cigar,
when the voice of his wife was heard re-echoing through the house:
"Gulpendam, Gulpenda-am!"

As if electrified, at the last long drawn-out syllable, van Gulpendam
flew up out of his rocking-chair, and that with such violence and
speed, that he drove the thing flying away several feet behind him.

"Man, the umbrella, quickly!" he roared.

Besides the habitual and constant use of nautical terms to which we
have already alluded, van Gulpendam had another weakness; he would
always insist upon having the emblem of his authority, the pajoeng,
(umbrella) close by his side. In the very entrance of the official
mansion four of these umbrellas were placed in a stand by the
chair which the Lord Resident was wont to occupy. In his private
office another pajoeng stood close by his writing desk; in his
bedroom yet another was conspicuous at the head of the residential
bed-stead. Thieves might break in during the night, such was his
argument, and at the majesty of the mighty pajoeng would recoil
in horror. To that argument Laurentia, imperious though she was,
had had to bow, and had been forced to suffer the emblem of her
lord's supremacy in the inmost sanctuary of her bed-chamber; but
in the pandoppo where, in her capacity of mistress of the house,
she was determined to rule supreme--no pajoeng was ever allowed to
intrude. If the Resident wished to go out for a walk then it was
always "Man, the umbrella!" and the umbrella and the cigar-case and
the lighted slow match obediently followed his footsteps. Sometimes
when the great man would cool his forehead in the breeze, the servant
obsequiously carried the official gold-laced cap--reverently it was
carried behind him as a priest might bear some holy relic.

