"Allah, master, they have caught Ardjan. Have pity!"

"They have caught Ardjan, you say," interrupted van Gulpendam,
"who have caught him?"

"Babah Than Khan and babah Liem King," replied the girl, weeping
bitterly.

"Oh ho," muttered her master to himself, and then turning to the girl
again, he said, aloud, "Where did they lay hands on him?"

"In the Moeara Tjatjing, toean," was the reply.

"In the Moeara Tjatjing," said van Gulpendam, musingly; "what brought
him there, I wonder?"

"He had just escaped with me," sobbed Dalima.

"That's it, now what did I tell you!" almost shrieked Laurentia.

"From the ship," added poor Dalima, between her sobs.

"Aye, no doubt!" cried her mistress. "Run away from this house. That
is nearer the truth!"

"For goodness sake," said the Resident, apart to his wife, "let the
girl get under weigh, or else we shall never get to land," and turning
to Dalima, he said: "Now come, first of all, let us hear how you got
on board the ship."

Thereupon, the poor girl, still seated cross-legged on the floor,
began to tell her master all that had befallen her from the time of
her forcible abduction out of his garden, to the moment that she had
succeeded in gnawing through the ropes which bound her, and had taken
to headlong flight.

Just as the girl was beginning her tale, Anna had quietly re-entered
the pandoppo, and thus heard the whole story.

"Well," said the Resident, when Dalima had ended the story of her
woes. "Well, that is a curious tale certainly; and now what about
Ardjan--did you leave him behind you at the Moeara Tjatjing?"

"Why, sir," replied Dalima, "he could not move, he was tied hand and
foot when the two Chinamen carried him off on the pole. They could not,
however, have taken him very far; for scarcely had I got my feet free,
before I saw their lanterns shining between the trees, and heard their
voices approaching. Had it been light enough they must have seen me
running away, and most probably I should never have got clear of them
at all."

