"Well, my dear father," replied the fair girl with a blush and a
most bewitching smile, "I suppose every girl would; however, I am
not particularly fond of all these things."

"Oh, no," interrupted the Resident with a laugh, "we know all about
that. All girls talk just as you do when they are your age. It
is always the same thing, 'Beauty when unadorned &c., &c.' But,"
he continued, "all that sentiment does not last very long; in time
women begin to see that the vital question is to appear as beautiful
as possible. And now, my girl, you run away, and go and have a look
to my breakfast; I have ordered it to be laid in the verandah and I
have asked my secretary van Nes to come and have it with me. You know
he is a man who knows what is good--so mind you look to the honour
of the galley."

When his daughter had left the pandoppo to do her father's bidding, he
turned to his wife and said: "Now, my dear Laurentia, just you listen
to me. In a day or two I have to pay our bill to John Pryce of Batavia,
it comes to 20,000 guilders, as you know, and of that sum I haven't
got the first thousand together yet. Now, if I am right about this
Lim Ho business, why then you will see, we shall have fair weather
enough for our money-question; oh yes, and we shall log a good bit
more than that--we shall have a nice little sum in the locker after
the bill is paid--that may come in handy--what do you say, eh?"

"Of course," replied his wife thoughtfully, "but then that running
away of Dalima, I don't like--"

"Now, now," cried her husband, "just you wait a bit, don't be in a
hurry, don't go running off the stocks too fast! If the girl's yarn
be true, then--yes--I am afraid that Lim Ho has been fishing behind
the net. And yet, when I come to look at it that is not so bad for us
either. It will only make him clap on more sail and--if we can only
keep our helm steady, then that little job may turn out a very nice
little breeze for us. A Chinaman, you know, will go far--aye he will
go very far to gratify his passions. So you just let me brace up,
and mind don't you go taking the wind out of my sails."

