It was growing rather late in the evening--about half past seven--when
the Oppas, who had been sent out, returned and reported to his
master that, with Dalima's help, he had found Ardjan. The news came
to Mr. van Gulpendam just after he had risen from table, and was
sitting with his wife and daughter in the cool front gallery of the
sumptuous Residential mansion. They were awaiting the arrival of some
friends and acquaintances who were, on that evening, to partake of
the family's friendly and sociable hospitality. Yes--we use the words
friendly and sociable hospitality; for the van Gulpendams, with all
their faults, were very hospitable, and could be most friendly and
sociable. Of course their intense worldliness and love of display had
a great deal to do with their hospitality; but it was so tempered by
the bon-ton of both host and hostess that, on such evenings as this,
their ostentation was hardly, if at all, perceptible. This was to be
a friendly and sociable evening. On such evenings not every one had
the entrée of the Residence; they were, in fact, quite different from
the grand official receptions.

These formal receptions took place regularly, once a week,
on Wednesday. Then lower officials, subaltern officers, leading
men of commerce, planters, strangers, in one word mere official
visitors were received. On these grand occasions the Lord Resident
would appear in state, clad in light-blue cloth coat with silver
buttons, in white cashmere trousers, in all the splendour, in short,
which his high office could shed upon poor mortal man. Then also his
handsome wife decked out in all her jewellery would flaunt about like a
gorgeous peacock. But at such receptions not a gleam, not a vestige of
friendliness or sociability could be discovered within the walls of the
house. Then on the one side, there was nothing but pride, conceit and
arrogance, and, on the other, all was humility and obsequious cringing
with here and there a little touch of half-concealed mockery. But the
ordinary evening gatherings were for intimate friends and highly-placed
officials who, by reason of their position or wealth, could venture
familiarly to approach the Residential throne. Invitations there were
none; but certain dignitaries were sure to put in an appearance,
such as the Commandant of the garrison who was a Colonel at least,
the President of the High Court of Justice, the Chief of the Medical
Staff, the President of the Local Board of Trade, and such like. All
these good people came without ceremony, without compliment, stood
and chatted for a moment or two with Mrs. van Gulpendam or said a
few pretty things to her fair daughter, shook hands with the Resident
in a friendly way, talked over the bits of news of the day and then
settled down at the little card-tables for a quiet game. As a rule
Mrs. van Gulpendam would take a hand, and, it must be said, that she
was by no means amongst the least lucky of the players, especially
when, towards the end of the evening, the play began to run rather
high. Of this love of play dear little Anna used to make excellent
use. As soon as she had seen the guests properly attended to, she would
slip away indoors, take her seat at her piano, and there would give
herself up to the full enjoyment of Chopin or Beethoven or Mozart,
whose masterpieces the young girl revelled in and would study with
the enthusiasm of a born musician.

