Such was to be this evening's programme, though as the sequel will
show, the music was to serve quite another purpose.

When the "Oppas" had, in minute detail, reported all he had learnt
to know about poor Ardjan, and how he had conveyed the Javanese who
was in a burning fever, to the hospital to be there further taken
care of--the countenance of his chief brightened up wonderfully.

"The deuce, the deuce," he muttered between his teeth, "that bit of
a joke with the devil-nettle may come to cost Lim Ho's worthy papa
a pretty penny!"

From a distance Mrs. van Gulpendam was eagerly watching the emotions
which were pretty clearly reflected on her husband's countenance. But
the good humour of the Resident rose to absolute satisfaction when
the man went on reporting to him that his people, with the assistance
of the inhabitants of the dessa, had discovered certain small casks
and tins carefully stowed away in the dense underwood, and which,
in all probability, contained opium.

"Who, do you say, found these things?" asked the Resident.

"Oh!" said the Oppas, "all of us."

"What," fell in van Gulpendam, somewhat taken aback, "did the dessa
folk see them as well as you?"

"Engèh (yes), Kandjeng toean," replied the man, who was seated
cross-legged in front of his master.

The reply evidently did not please his excellency at all, and his
displeasure was plainly reflected in his face.

"And where did you make this haul?" he continued. "Have you brought
it along with you?"

"Pardon me, Kandjeng toean," replied the Oppas, "I had the things
taken to the chief inspector of police."

"Stupid ass!" muttered van Gulpendam almost inaudibly.

"Engèh, Kandjeng toean," was the stolid reply--the man did not
understand the epithet.

The word "Engèh" is always in the mouth of a Javanese whenever he
addresses a European. He will give that answer even when he has not
understood a word of what has been said to him, and it must not be
taken to express any opinion of his own, but it is simply a meaningless
and polite kind of consent to whatever his superior may choose to
say to him. Van Gulpendam thoroughly knew the Javanese character,
and was therefore not the least surprised at his man's answer.

