"Go," said he, "to the inspector and tell him that I want him to come
to me at once." The servant still retaining his posture, pushed himself
backward for a few paces, then sprang up and hurried off to carry out
his master's order. A few moments later, after the usual greetings
and compliments had been exchanged, the conversation became general.

Anna seized this opportunity, and quietly slipped away, scarcely
noticed by any one present. Dalima, she knew, had returned, and
she was full of curiosity to hear what had become of Ardjan. She
had managed to overhear a few scraps of her father's conversation
with the "Oppas," but had not been able to get at the truth of the
story. When she reached the pandoppo she found Dalima there, seated,
cross-legged as usual, but with tears streaming down her cheeks.

"What in the world has happened to you, Dalima?" cried she. "Do tell
us all about it."

"O Nana," cried the poor girl, "they have abused my Ardjan so
shamefully!"

And thereupon she told her mistress in what a pitiable state she
had found her lover. "Oh," she sobbed, "if I could have got there a
little sooner!"

"But, who has treated him so dreadfully?" cried Anna full of sympathy.

"Lim Ho," replied Dalima.

"Lim Ho?" said Anna. "Why, what was he doing there?"

"That I can't tell you," replied the girl. "All I can say is that I
recognised him quite plainly as he was rowed past the djaga monjet
'out of the Moeara Tjatjing.'"

"Oh, you may have been mistaken, Dalima," said her young mistress.

"Mistaken, Nana! Oh no," replied the girl. "I could see him clench
his fist in anger when he caught sight of me. I feel sure, indeed,
he would have put back had he dared; and the few words Ardjan could
speak have made me certain it was he."

"But," asked Anna, "what could have induced him to torture the poor
fellow so unmercifully with the kamadoog?"

"I am sure I don't know," said Dalima, colouring; "perhaps it was
because Ardjan is my sweetheart; it may be because he rescued me
from the Kiem Ping Hin. Oh, dearest Nana," continued the poor girl,
with a flood of tears, "poor dear Ardjan has gone mad, he does nothing
but rave."

