"And where is he now?" asked Anna, striving to quiet the sobbing girl.

"He is in the hospital; the police took him there after they had gone
to fetch the inspector."

"The inspector?" cried Anna. "What had he to do with it?"

"The men took some small casks and some tins which they had found,
to his house," was Dalima's reply.

"Opium!" exclaimed Anna, now really frightened. "Where did they find
the horrid stuff?"

"They found it close to the hut where Ardjan was tortured."

"Close to the hut, you say," cried Anna. "They found it at the same
time that they discovered Ardjan?"

"Yes, Na," faltered Dalima, scarcely audibly.

For a moment the fair girl stood as if lost in thought. "I hope
it will not compromise poor Ardjan," said she, musingly, and then,
having collected her thoughts, she again turned to Dalima, and said:

"Were you quite alone with Ardjan when you left the ship in the
djoekoeng?"

"Quite alone, Nana."

"You are sure, there was nothing in the djoekoeng when you got into
her? Now think well."

"Quite sure, Nana, nothing whatever," replied Dalima. "How could
there be? We slid along a bit of rope into the boat, while the storm
was howling all round us, and glad enough we were to get out of the
ship and away from her as soon as possible."

Nonna Anna reflected for a few moments. Then she started as if a
sudden thought had struck her, ran into her own room, which adjoined
the pandoppo, and soon returned carrying with her a writing case. She
put it down before one of the lamps which were burning there, and
hurriedly scribbled a little note. When she had sealed it, she handed
it to the maid, and said:

"Now, Dalima, listen to me. Do you really love Ardjan, and are you
anxious to save him?"

"Oh, Nana," cried the poor girl, ready again to burst into tears;
"how can you ask that?"

"Very well," said Anna, quietly, "then take this note to Mr. van
Nerekool, you understand?"

"Oh yes, I know," cried the girl; "he lives in Aboe Street close by
the Catholic Church. But it is so far away, and it is now so late."

