"Then you had better tell Sodikromo, the gardener's boy, to go with
you," said Anna. "You can take a 'sâdos' (dos-à-dos) and you will
soon be there and back--So now quick--make haste."

It did not take Sodikromo long to get the vehicle ready, and soon he
and Dalima were on their way with the nonna's message.

While this was going on in the pandoppo, Mr. and Mrs. van Gulpendam
were receiving their guests, who kept on gradually arriving, with
the courtesy and suavity they could so well put on.

"Well, that is kind of you, colonel, I call it really very kind of you
to remain faithful to our little party," said Laurentia to a gentleman
who had just come in. He was in plain clothes; but his bearing and
his white hair closely clipped and his bristling moustache plainly
proclaimed him a soldier.

"And why, madam," replied he, "what may have led you to suppose
that I would have denied myself the pleasure of presenting myself
here to-night?"

"Van Gulpendam has told me," replied the hostess, "that there has
been very ugly news from Atjeh, and that a considerable part of our
garrison would have to leave. So I took it for granted that you would
be much too busy to--"

"Do what, madam?" said the colonel, smiling.

"To come and take my hand here as usual?"

"By no means, I can assure you that a good deal would have to happen
before I would forego the pleasure of your charming society. Oh,
no," he continued, "I have given my orders--the rest, the chief of
my staff will see to."

"And you," said Laurentia, turning to another of her newly-arrived
guests, "have not these sad tidings given you a great deal to do? A
very large medical staff will have to accompany the expedition--at
least, as member of the Red Cross I have received some such intimation
from Batavia."

"No, madam," replied the gentleman thus addressed, who was
chief medical officer at Santjoemeh. "I have not to complain of
overwork. Every provision for our expedition to Atjeh has been made
and I need not trouble my head about it any more. But, for all that,
I can assure you that I was in real danger of being obliged to miss
your pleasant party this evening."

