"Indeed," said Laurentia, with much assumed interest, "I hope there
is no case of serious illness among our friends, doctor?"

"I am glad to say there is not, madam," replied the doctor. "But,
as I was at my dinner this afternoon, the young surgeon on duty at
the hospital came running in to tell me that I was urgently wanted. A
young native, he said, had been brought in by the police, who was in
a most dreadful condition, suffering from something which completely
puzzled him. His diagnostica was altogether at fault."

"His--what was at fault, did you say, doctor?" enquired Mrs van
Gulpendam.

"His diagnostica, madam," replied the surgeon. "That is the name,
you know, we give to the science by which we recognize a special form
of disease. Well, as the young fellow assured me that the patient was
in an extremely critical state--in fact in extremis--I had no choice
but to go and see him. You know, dear madam," proceeded the surgeon,
sententiously, "a physician's devotion must be that of a priest."

"Oh, I know, of course," replied Laurentia, with a slight smile;
"but pray go on."

"Well," continued the surgeon, "I went all the way to the hospital. And
now, just guess what was the matter!--Oh, those young doctors of the
new school! The fellow had his mouth full of fine words--of absent
diaeresis, of efflorescentia, of formicatio, of hemianthropia, and
what not. But he couldn't see with all his brand new science, that
he had to do with a very simple--though I must own--a most severe
case of urtication."

"A severe case of what?" enquired Laurentia.

"Why, madam, of urtication," replied the doctor, "the man
had undergone, somehow or other, a most severe flogging with
nettle-leaves."

"Nettle-leaves!" exclaimed van Gulpendam, breaking into the
conversation, his interest being thoroughly aroused at the doctor's
words. "These things," he continued, "are called in Javanese, I think,
Kamadoog--are they not, doctor?"

"Precisely so, Resident, you are quite right," was the surgeon's reply.

