"Pray, doctor, do go on with your story," said van Gulpendam. "Ten
knots an hour if you please."

"Well," said the doctor, "that foolish young fellow might have let me
finish my dinner in peace. There was nothing to be done in the case
but what the people of the dessa had done already, the parts most
afflicted had to be covered with sirih-chalk and the other parts with
oil. It was very simple. The man was, of course, in a burning fever,
but I need not have been disturbed for that, there are antifebrilia
and antidinika in abundance in store, he might have administered them
without calling me in."

"And how long," asked van Gulpendam, somewhat eagerly, "do the effects
of such an urtication, as you call it, last?"

"Oh, that is impossible to say, that depends entirely upon how the
nettle has been applied. This patient of ours has had an uncommonly
heavy dose of it, and, in my opinion, the fever will last some
forty-eight hours. Then, I hope, it will abate, but it will be quite
a fortnight before the man is on his legs again."

"A fortnight," said van Gulpendam, with a frown. "Why, that is a
long time."

"Yes," said the surgeon, "it will be quite a fortnight, and then only
if all goes well."

"And tell me," continued the Resident, "will it leave any serious
consequences?"

"None whatever, my dear sir. If the patient once gets well over the
fever, there will be none."

"But surely," insisted van Gulpendam, "there will be scars and the
skin will be discoloured."

"Certainly not--nothing of the kind," replied the other.

"So that," continued the Resident, "after the cure there will be no
visible proofs of the treatment he has received?"

"There will be none. But, Resident, why all these questions? Perhaps
you take some special interest in the man?"

"Not I," said van Gulpendam, carelessly, but yet with some
confusion. "Why should I? I know nothing about the case, I have heard
nothing about it; but I have heard so much of the terrible effects
of the Hoekoem Kamadoog that I often have wished to learn something
more about it."

