Other guests were arriving, and so the conversation dropped. After
the usual greetings the card-tables were occupied, while Anna was
busying herself at the tea-table. Play had, however, scarcely begun
before the chief inspector of police was announced. He paid his
respects to the lady of the house, interchanged a few words with
some of his acquaintance, and then turning to the Resident he said:
"I beg your pardon, sir, for thus disturbing you; but the message I
received, left me no choice but to intrude myself upon you at once."

"Quite right, quite right, Mr. Meidema," said the host, as he rose
from his seat and turning to his partners he said: "Gentlemen, you
must oblige me by playing a three-handed game for a few minutes,
I have urgent business with Mr. Meidema."

The two officials entered a side-chamber which opened upon the gallery,
and after having carefully shut the door, Mr. van Gulpendam, without
preface whatever, said to the inspector:

"Mr. Meidema, you have made a considerable capture of opium to-day,
I hear."

"Yes, Resident," was the reply, "three buttertubs full, and fifteen
tins have been delivered into my custody. In the tubs the opium was
packed just like butter, one little tub of ten kilos, inside a larger
one, and surrounded by coarse salt. The tins contain about five kilos
each. The whole amounts to about one and a half 'pikols.'"

"So, so," said van Gulpendam, "that is a pretty good haul."

"Which are worth," continued Meidema, "I should say, about nine
thousand guilders."

"How do you make that out?" asked the Resident. "You know Government
delivers the raw opium to the farmers at the rate of 30 guilders the
kattie. Now, 30 × 150, is, according to my reckoning, no more than
four thousand five hundred guilders. I am right, am I not?"

"You are perfectly right, sir," replied Meidema. "But you must remember
that this is not raw material. We have got hold of tjandoe, and you
know, I suppose, that one kattie of raw opium gives only fifteen
thirty second parts of pure tjandoe."

