"I daresay you are right," said the other. "But," he added, fixing a
very strange look upon his inspector, "are you quite sure it is opium?"

Without appearing to notice his superior officer's look, Meidema
answered at once: "It is something better than that, sir, it is
tjandoe. Look at the sample, I have one here with me. It is the purest
Bengal article."

"Hadn't we better," said van Gulpendam, "submit that sample to a
chemist for analysis?"

"Just as you please," said Meidema; "but I see not the slightest need
for that. It is tjandoe, and it contains, at least, twenty or thirty
per cent of morphia."

"Indeed," quoth van Gulpendam. "I was only thinking--Well, it is your
business, you know what is best. The contraband has been placed in
your custody. You know, I suppose, where it came from?"

"Oh yes, sir, I know where it came from. Your chief servant told me
that it was put on shore from the Kiem Ping Hin, and you know--"

"From the Kiem Ping Hin," hastily exclaimed van Gulpendam. "What
makes you think that?"

"What makes me think that?" slowly repeated Meidema. "Why, Resident,
I told you just now your chief servant told me so."

"Man, man," cried the Resident, in a loud voice.

The servant thus summoned appeared; and then turning to Mr. Meidema
and pointing to the Javanese, the Resident said: "Is that the man
who told you this?"

"Yes, sir," said Meidema, "that is the man."

"Man," said the Resident, as he sternly fixed his eye upon his Javanese
servant, "that opium which you delivered to the toean Inspector,
was found upon Ardjan--was it not?"

"Engèh, Kandjeng toean," was the man's reply. "But"--

"I will have no 'buts,'" cried van Gulpendam, "simply yes or no."

"Engèh, Kandjeng toean," said the man again stolidly.

"You hear it, Mr. Meidema?"

"Oh yes, Resident, I hear it," replied the inspector, in a strange
tone of voice.

"Very well, then," continued his superior officer, "you will please to
draw up your official report in accordance with that man's evidence."

