"But, sir--" began the other.

"I will have no 'buts,'" interrupted van Gulpendam, sharply. "All
you have to do is to do your duty."

"Have you any other commands for me, Resident?" drily asked the
inspector, with a stiff bow.

"No, thank you--none at present."

A few moments later the card parties were in full swing, and Laurentia,
who was holding splendid hands, was in unusually high spirits, and
exceedingly talkative.

"Humph," muttered her husband, as he took his seat at his own
table. "She is beginning rather early--rather too early I am afraid."








CHAPTER V.

MUSIC HATH CHARMS.


Just as Mr. Meidema was leaving the Residence in his brougham, another
carriage drove up and Mr. van Nerekool walked up the steps which gave
access to the gallery in which the company was assembled.

It may have struck the reader as somewhat strange that so young, so
well-educated and so refined a girl as Anna van Gulpendam assuredly
was, should have ventured to write to the young lawyer, and strange
also that the latter should so speedily have answered her summons in
person. But, in the first place, it is well to remember that, when she
wrote that letter Anna, completely carried away by the sore distress
of Dalima, and, in the kindness of her heart, most anxious to do what
she could for her favourite servant, acted purely upon impulse; and
had not stopped to consider that perhaps her action might be looked
upon as somewhat forward and indelicate. Further it must be said,
that although never a word of love had passed between them, yet they
were united in the very strongest bond of sympathy--such sympathy as
always will draw together true and noble natures whenever they happen
to meet. As they were themselves perfectly honest and guileless; no
paltry suspicions could possibly arise on either side. That this strong
bond of sympathy did exist between Anna van Gulpendam and young Mr. van
Nerekool, cannot be denied; but for the present at least, there was no
more than this. Whether or not that bond would ever be drawn closer and
give place to more intimate and tender relations the sequel will show.

