"Yes, that is my department, Mr. van Nerekool."

"I will take a cup of tea if you please."

"Our cook makes most excellent coffee, I assure you," cried Mrs. van
Gulpendam.

"I don't doubt it," replied the young man, with a slight bow. "I do
not for a moment question her talent, madam; but, if you will allow
me, I prefer a cup of tea. It reminds one of home, you know. If you
please, Miss Anna, may I ask you for a cup of tea?"

"On one condition," said the young girl, playfully.

"It is granted at once," replied the young man. "Now, what is it?"

"That you will presently accompany me in 'Fleurs d'oranger.' You know
Ludovic's charming duet, do you not?"

Van Nerekool made a wry face and slightly raised his hands in a
deprecating manner.

"Oh," continued the young girl, laughing. "You may look as solemn as
a judge on the bench; but I won't let you off. The 'Fleurs d'oranger'
or no tea--there you have my ultimatum. My ultimatum, that is what they
call the last word before a declaration of war, don't they, colonel?"

"Quite right, Miss Anna," said the old soldier, who, wholly engrossed
in his cards, had heard nothing but the last words of the question.

"An ultimatum," cried van Nerekool, "a declaration of war? Who would be
so mad as to declare war against you? No, no; sooner than be suspected
of that I would play 'Fleurs d'oranger' the whole evening!"

"There you go to the other extreme," laughed Anna, "that is always the
way with you lawyers, at least papa says so; you are always finding
paragons of perfection or else monsters of iniquity."

"No, no, we are not so bad as all that, Miss Anna!" said van
Nerekool. "But will you allow me for a few moments to watch your
mother's play and take a lesson from her?"

"Do so, by all means," said Anna, "meanwhile I must go and pour out
the tea and see to the other refreshments, and when I have done I
mean to play a sonata of Beethoven."

"Beethoven!" cried van Nerekool, "most delightful, Miss Anna, do let
me beg of you to give us the second sonata in D dur Op. 36."

