At Mrs. van Gulpendam's not very reasonable or very courteous remark,
van Nerekool had of course risen, and the Resident's exclamation made
him feel rather awkward; he did not, in fact, very well know what to
do, when the young lady of the house came to the rescue.

"Now Mr. van Nerekool," said she, "my 'Fleurs d'oranger!' what has
become of them? It is time to begin, I think."

"And my sonata in D dur," replied the young man, "what has become of
it? I have not heard a single note of it yet."

"True," she said, "I had quite forgotten it; come and turn over the
music for me."

"Yes, that's right," said fair Laurentia, "you go and turn over the
music," and for an instant she looked at the young people as they
retired together and then fixed her eyes once again upon her cards.

"Now, you see," continued she, "what did I tell you, no sooner has
he turned his back than I get quite different cards!"

"Oh," muttered van Gulpendam from his table, "I can't bear to have
a fellow prying into my hand. If he does not wish to play what does
the booby want to come here for at all, I wonder?"

"H'm," said the old colonel, "perhaps he is anxious to learn."

"To learn," contemptuously echoed van Gulpendam, "he will never be
any good at cards, he is not practical enough for that!"

"I quite agree with you, Resident," said the judge somewhat drily,
"a man who is not of a practical turn of mind will never make much
of a hand at cards."

"No, nor at anything else either," grumbled van Gulpendam; "come,
let us go on with the game. It is my lead. Hearts, I say."

The two young people had entered the inner gallery and were no sooner
out of sight of the company, before van Nerekool began:

"I have received your note, Miss Anna, and, as you see, I have hastened
to obey your summons."

"For goodness sake speak lower," whispered she. And then in her usual
tone of voice she continued: "Just help me, please, to find the music."

Whilst they were engaged in taking the pieces one by one out of a
curiously carved étagère which stood by the piano and examining them,
the young girl said in a whisper: "Yesterday our baboe Dalima was
forcibly carried away out of the garden--Hush! do not interrupt me or
I shall not have time to tell you all. The author of the outrage is
Lim Ho. She has, however, been most providentially rescued by Ardjan,
the man to whom she is engaged to be married. Thereupon Lim Ho has
had him most fearfully tortured with Kamadoog leaves--so dreadfully
that he is now in the hospital--"

