"Look here, Miss Anna, I have found your 'Fleurs d'oranger,'" said
van Nerekool aloud as he heard some one moving outside.

"Yes, thank you," replied Anna. "But what can have become of that
sonata? Here it is," she continued in the same tone of voice, "I
have it; but pray, Mr. van Nerekool, put that heavy pile of music on
the piano."

"Oh," said he, "you intend to give us the sonata before the waltz?"

"Yes," said Anna, "that is best I think;" and then she continued
softly, "I know that sonata so perfectly that I can go on talking
while I am playing it by heart."

She sat down to the instrument, van Nerekool standing close by her
side ready to turn over the leaves for her.

Anna struck the first notes of Beethoven's magnificent work while
she continued: "As I was telling you, Ardjan had to be taken to the
hospital in consequence of the brutal treatment he had received. But
that is not what made me write to you."

"What was it then?" whispered van Nerekool eagerly. "I am all ears,
Miss Anna."

"Well then," said she, "pay attention to me."

And while the nimble fingers of the talented girl ran over the keys,
while she rendered in most masterly style the lovely reveries of
the inspired musician--strains which full of sweetness yet here
and there seem clouded by the great gloom which was impending over
the author's future life--she told the young man the whole story of
Dalima's abduction, of her rescue by Ardjan, in what wretched plight
the poor Javanese had been found, and she told him also that close by
the place where they found him a considerable quantity of smuggled
opium had been discovered, and had been delivered into the custody
of the chief inspector of police.

Van Nerekool had not for a single instant turned his eye from the
music, he had never once made a mistake in turning over the pages;
but yet he had been listening so attentively that not a single word
had escaped his ears. At the ill-omened word opium his countenance
fell. The young girl noticed the change of expression though she did
not allow her emotion to influence her play. Indeed she executed the
final movement of the sonata--that brilliant movement in which a very
flood of fancies all seem to unite in conveying the idea of perfect
bliss--in so faultless and spirited a manner, that the card-players in
the outer gallery, pausing for a few moments in their game to listen,
broke out in a loud chorus of applause.

