"But do you know for certain, Miss Anna," said van Nerekool, under
cover of the noise, "that it was opium?"

"How should I know?" replied she before the clamour had subsided.

"But was that opium brought ashore by Ardjan and Dalima?"

"Most certainly not," said she in a whisper, "there was nothing of
the kind in the djoekoeng in which they came to land."

"How then did the stuff get there?" asked van Nerekool.

"Dalima could tell me nothing about it," continued the young girl. "And
now," she went on in her usual tone of voice, "now for the 'Fleurs
d'oranger!'"

"But," insisted van Nerekool in a scarcely audible whisper, "what
makes you fear that Ardjan will be suspected? As far as I can see
there is not a shadow of a suspicion against him, unless--"

"Hush!" said Anna, "presently--"

And then, as a pleasant sequel to Beethoven's sublime melody, the
sparkling notes of the delightful waltz were heard filling both
galleries with gay and pleasant music.

While the last chords were still re-echoing, the young girl answered
van Nerekool's question: "Just now," said she, "Mr. Meidema was with
my father and--" dear little Anna paused and hesitated.

"And?" said van Nerekool. "Come, Miss Anna, you must tell me all."

"I overheard part of their conversation--"

"Oh," said he, "you listened just a little bit?"

The poor girl blushed deeply, face, neck and ears were covered with
the glow. "Well yes," said she resolutely, "I did listen. I had heard
my father ordering the Oppas to go and fetch Mr. Meidema and somehow
I could not get rid of the suspicion that it had something to do with
Ardjan. When the inspector called I got behind the screen which masks
the door and--"

"Well, yes, Miss Anna, go on, you must tell me all."

"And then I heard all they said," continued she.

"What did you hear?" asked the young man, eagerly.

"All they said," she replied.

"Yes; but," continued he, "what did they talk about?"

"Oh! Mr. van Nerekool," said Anna, "I really cannot tell you all
that passed."

