"Perhaps not; but yet you can remember the gist of their words. Do try,
Miss Anna."

"Mr. van Nerekool," said she; "I am not at all sure that I have a
right to--"

"But my dear Miss Anna, why then did you send for me? Just ask yourself
that question?"

"Oh!" sighed Anna, "I was so over-anxious to save Dalima's lover."

"Just so," replied he; "I can quite understand that; but in what way
can I possibly serve you unless you will trust me with all that took
place? As far as I can see at present, there seems not the remotest
reason why Ardjan should be accused of this smuggling business. Do
pray trust me, Miss Anna!"

"Oh! how I wish I could!" sighed the poor girl again. "How I wish I
could; but it is so very hard."

"What is your difficulty?" insisted the young man.

"That conversation between my father and Mr. Meidema," replied she.

"But come," she continued; "you are right; you must know everything
or nothing. I will tell you all."

Thereupon, burning with shame, the young girl repeated just what
had passed between the two officials. She concealed nothing--neither
the supposed value of the smuggled wares, nor Meidema's suspicions
as to their source, nor the examination of the chief servant. But
when she came to reveal the fact that her father had, in a manner,
forced the policeman to accuse Ardjan, the poor girl almost broke down.

Van Nerekool understood her confusion but too well, he knew enough and
felt too deeply how humiliating was her position to wish to prolong
the conversation. But before dismissing the subject he said:

"Just now you told me that Mr. Meidema had mentioned the name of the
ship from whence he suspected the opium to have been brought. Do you
happen to remember it?"

"Yes," said Anna; "I believe it was Hing Kim Lin, or Lin King Him,
or something of that kind."

"Was it perhaps Kiem Ping Hin?" asked the lawyer, in a very grave
voice. "Now think well before you answer."

"Yes, Mr. van Nerekool," she cried still in the same subdued tones,
"that was the name."

