The young man could not suppress a sigh as he looked down sadly at
the fair girl beside him.

"Why do you look so strangely at me?" asked Anna in some alarm.

"Do you know to whom this Kiem Ping Hin belongs?" he asked.

"No," said she; "how should I?"

"Well, then, the Kiem Ping Hin belongs to Lim Ho."

"To Lim Ho? what, to the son of the opium farmer?" cried the girl,
covering her face with her hands as if she were trying to hide herself.

"That is the man," replied van Nerekool, as he looked down anxiously
at her.

Then Anna remembered the infamous dialogue between her parents at
which that morning she had been present. The hot tears of shame came
rushing into her eyes, forced their way through her closed fingers
and went trickling down her shapely hands as she sobbed out:

"Oh, my God! my God!"

"Miss Anna, dear Miss Anna," said van Nerekool, deeply moved at
the sight of her grief; "do be calm; pray, do not despair. I will
do all I possibly can to save that unfortunate man. I promise you
that solemnly."

"But, my father," cried Anna, as she hurriedly with her handkerchief
tried to wipe away the tears which were still flowing fast. "But,
my father?"

"Not a word of all this to him."

"Oh! no; Mr. van Nerekool," said she, "I do not mean that; but will
this wretched business compromise him in any way?"

"Not if I can help it," replied he; "I shall do my best to arrange
matters so as to leave him out of the question altogether. Trust me."

"Thank you, thank you," said Anna. "Now let us say no more. I will
go in and try to hide my feelings; you had better remain at the piano
for awhile."

"Yes," said he, "I shall go on playing something or other and then
I will take my leave."

In a quarter of an hour or so, van Nerekool was again standing behind
the card-players. The game was nearly over, they were just having
the last round and soon the company began to break up.

"Really, Mrs. van Gulpendam has too much luck," said the old colonel,
as he sat ruefully looking at the few scattered counters he had
before him.

