"Why," cried van Nerekool, "he has no right whatever to do that--such
dictation is perfectly illegal--it is directly contrary to the law!"

"Precisely so," continued Zuidhoorn. "And, as you may suppose, I
have flatly refused to obey his directions. But listen further. On
that list of his, Ardjan's trial is put the very last of all. Can
you make that out?"

"Well," said van Nerekool, "I daresay it is because he has no proofs
against the man. In fact, I feel persuaded that it is a mere trumped
up case, and knowing that it is so, he wishes to keep the man as
long as possible in custody, so that when ultimately he is acquitted,
he may have the satisfaction of saying: the fellow has been so many
months locked up for my pleasure."

Mr. Zuidhoorn cast a sharp look at his young colleague. "It may be
so," said he, after a pause, "however, that is not the view I take
of the matter."

"Indeed," said the other, "what, then, is your opinion?"

"Well," said Mr. Zuidhoorn, "you know, I suppose, that I have applied
for leave of absence on account of my health, and that I am going
to Holland?"

"I have heard so," replied the young man; "but what of that?"

"What of that?" repeated the President. "Don't you see! If the cases
should be taken in the order van Gulpendam directs, why then, we have
so many of them that Ardjan cannot possibly be tried before six or
eight weeks."

"Certainly, I see that," said van Nerekool; "but--"

"You see," continued the President, "by that time I shall be far
enough away."

"Quite so," rejoined the other; "but what does that matter? I suppose
some other judge will be appointed in your place to preside at
Santjoemeh, while you are absent."

A bitter smile curled the lip of Mr. Zuidhoorn. "Who knows?" said he,
"where that substitute may have to come from. Travelling in India is a
slow business. If, for instance, Mr. Raabtoon were called from Padang,
or Mr. Nellens had to come from Makassar, why, there are two months
gone before either of them can be properly installed, and meanwhile--"

