"Not a bit of it," said van Gulpendam, "we must keep the galley fire
in--you seem to forget our bill to John Pryce."

But the lady had vanished. One of her female attendants had come in
and whispered to her mistress that M`Bok Kârijâh was in the kitchen
waiting to see her.

This M`Bok Kârijâh was a friend of Nènèh Wong Toewâ and pretty nearly
as old as she was; but she had more strings to her bow than Mrs. van
Gulpendam's confidante, for besides being a doekoen, she was also a
bepôrrô, a dealer in jewellery.

"Much use her coming now," muttered the lady, "now that my husband
has this Chinaman on his hands."

She hastened however to her room, and ordered her servant to show
the old woman up.

At the entrance of the pandoppo the Chinaman and the old crone
met. Neither, however, seemed to have the slightest knowledge of
the other; but a smile played upon the lips of the babah. For anyone
but M`Bok Kârijâh that smile was no more than the stereotyped smirk
which the sallow face of every Celestial wears when he is about to
enter the presence of a superior. The old woman, however, knew that
it was a smile of inward satisfaction. Preceded by the servant girl
she entered the inner gallery and was admitted into the njonja's
bed-chamber, while the Chinaman approached the Resident who sat
comfortably balancing himself in his rocking-chair by the side of
which was displayed the pajoeng stand which surrounded the high and
mighty lord with its lustre of umbrellas.

"Well, babah," began van Gulpendam as with a careless gesture he
motioned the Chinaman to a seat, "Well, babah, what brings you here
this hot time of day?"

The Chinaman took a chair without ceremony, and with a sly look he
said airily, "Oh I merely came to inquire after the health of the
Kandjeng toean."

"The deuce you have, babah, I must say you might have chosen some
other time for that."

"Oh, pray don't say so, Kandjeng toean. Really this is the very best
time for a little quiet chat. Body and mind are now both at rest,
and this is the very moment for a little business."

