"Yes, Kandjeng toean, and he has done more than that He has placed
a sample of it into the hands of a chemist."

"Well," said the other. "And what is the chemist's opinion?"

"He has made an affidavit," replied the Chinaman, "to the effect that
it is real tjandoe containing thirty-two per cent. of morphine."

"That settles the matter," said the Resident. "I am sorry for it babah,
I cannot help you at all, things must take their course."

"But," insinuated the other, "if the Kandjeng toean would--"

"No, no, babah!" said van Gulpendam in an absent kind of way, as if
his mind was on something else. "No, babah, I can do nothing for you."

"I am very sorry to hear it," said the Chinaman affecting to sigh
though the stereotyped smile still hovered on his lips. Then,
with ready tact dropping that topic of conversation altogether,
he began to talk about indifferent matters, about the gossip of the
day, the state of trade, about the ships that had just come in, and
so on--when suddenly he said: "Yesterday, you know, the Wyberton of
the Rotterdam Lloyd came into harbour. She has brought me a splendid
consignment of Havanah cigars. I have had a few of them packed up as
samples in cases of a dozen. They are very fine indeed. I happen to
have one of these little cases about me. Will the Kandjeng toean do
me the favour of having a look at it?"

With these words the wily Chinaman produced a cigar-case, which,
as far as outward appearance went, was really very pretty indeed,
it was very tastefully embroidered with bunches of red roses.

The Resident took the case, looked at it, admired it, and opened
it. It contained twelve cigars, very fine looking Havanahs, which,
by their fragrance, were undoubtedly of an excellent brand. But, as
the Chinaman went on talking, the Resident looked at the case and its
contents in a very abstracted mood, as if he hardly saw it at all, his
thoughts were evidently elsewhere. At length, he handed the case back,
and said, "Yes, a very pretty thing--it seems a very fine sample."

