"Who knows," said van Gulpendam thoughtfully. "Now if I had the matter
in hand, I might perhaps--"

"O pray, Kandjeng toean," whined the Chinaman. "Do pray help me I
beseech you."

"I shall see," said van Gulpendam. "A great deal depends upon yourself,
babah. You know the penalty for ill-treatment is very severe."

The Chinaman, in a moment, took the not too delicate hint. He felt
in his pocket and drew forth a little silver tea-caddy of most
exquisite workmanship. Said he; "That Wyberton I mentioned just now,
has brought me some very fine silver ware from Paris. Just look at
that fretwork. Do you think van Kempen in the Hague could turn out
anything better than that?"

Van Gulpendam took the box. "Aye, aye," said he, as he examined it,
"it is marvellously pretty--very tasteful I must say."

"I have had the box filled with the choicest Chousong, such tea never
reaches Europe, it is reserved for the court at Pekin. Just smell it,
Kandjeng toean, is it not delicious?"

The resident opened the tea-caddy and put his nose to it, but
not before he had had a peep inside it. "Most delicious," he
exclaimed. "Why, babah, you must send me some of that tea, we cannot
get anything worth drinking here, the njonja is always grumbling at
her storekeeper."

"Oh!" cried the Chinaman, "may I beg the Kandjeng toean to accept
that little sample as an offering to the njonja?"

"Thank you very much, babah, I am pleased to accept it in her name. I
am sure she will be delighted with it."

The face of the Celestial glowed with satisfaction; he felt that now
he had his foot fairly in the stirrup. "I may hope then," said he,
"that the Kandjeng toean will--"

"I can promise you nothing at all, babah," said the Resident. "I
shall see, however, what I can do." He rose as he spoke--a sign
that the interview was at an end; but suddenly a thought seemed to
strike him. "Do you know who it is that has charged your son with
ill-treating Ardjan?"

"Yes, I do, Kandjeng toean, it is Pak Ardjan, the father of the mate."

