"He is a notorious opium smuggler, is he not? Some day or other he
will burn his fingers at it."

The Chinaman looked up in surprise; but he saw through it.

"At least," continued van Gulpendam, in the most off-hand way,
"that is what I hear from the police, it is no business of mine. I
shall see what I can do."

Babah Lim Yang Bing stepped up to the great man and familiarly held out
his hand; Jack was as good as his master now. But just at that moment
a handsome big dog--one of Anna's favourites--came bounding into the
pandoppo, and wagging his tail, came jumping up at his master. Van
Gulpendam took the animal's paw and coolly placed it into the babah's
outstretched palm.

"Oh, it is all the same to me, noble sir," said the Chinaman, with
his false smile, as he heartily shook the dog's honest paw.

The Dutch official thoroughly understood those words of the
Chinaman. As soon as he was alone in the pandoppo, he, with a greedy
look, opened the cigar-case and emptied it on the table. His face
beamed with joy, for round each Havanah there was very neatly wrapped
a bank-note of a thousand guilders, in such a manner that one half
of the cigars only was covered, and nothing could be seen of the
paper when first the case was opened. Next he put his fingers into
the tea-caddy. Yes, there again he encountered the same soft kind of
paper. He was about to pull it out; but suddenly he thought better of
it, he hurriedly replaced the precious cigars, snatched up the case and
the silver box, and rushed into his private office where he immediately
sat down and began to write the letter which so puzzled the President
of the Council at Santjoemeh. Just as he had sealed it, he heard his
wife coming into the inner gallery, and taking leave of M`Bok Kârijâh.

"A lucky day," he whispered in her ear, as he threw his arm round
her neck. "A lucky day," and thus he drew her along.

"A lucky day?" she asked, replying to his embrace by folding her arm
round his waist as she gazed at him with moist and glittering eyes.

