Thus they went to the bedroom. When he got there van Gulpendam
carefully closed the door and double locked it. Then he drew his wife
to the table, and, taking a seat, he shook out upon it the contents
of the cigar-case and of the tea-caddy, while Laurentia stood by him,
her eyes fixed upon the bits of paper. There were five-and-twenty
of them, there could be no mistake about them, for the mark upon
their silky surface told plainly enough that each represented the
value of one thousand guilders. A shade of disappointment passed
over Laurentia's handsome features. It passed away in an instant,
and was gone long before her husband could notice it. He saw her
eagerly seizing upon the notes, carefully unrolling them from the
cigars and smoothing down those which had come out of the tea-caddy
in a sadly crumpled condition.

"Twenty-five thousand guilders!" cried she. "A pretty sum indeed--Truly
it is a lucky day, for added to what I have got--"

"What have you got?" cried her husband.

"Yes, what I have just now received from M`Bok Kârijâh!"

"Let us see! What did she give you?" eagerly cried van Gulpendam.

"I will show you presently; but first this." As she spoke she took
up a little parcel which was lying on the table by the side of a
cardboard box which bore marks of having already been opened. She
then carefully stripped off and put aside the pisang-leaves in which
the parcel was wrapped, and at length she produced a small cup of the
commonest earthenware, which contained a greenish, quivering jelly,
of most disgusting appearance. "First take this," said Laurentia,
as, with a tiny Chinese spoon, she scooped out of the greenish mass,
a piece about the size of a hazel-nut, and held it to her husband's
lips as though she was going to feed him. "First take that, Gulpie,
dear--and then I will show you."

Van Gulpendam cast a most comical look of despair at the gruesome
morsel, while his face assumed an expression of loathing which baffles
description. "That filthy stuff again," he whined submissively. "You
know it is no good."

