"Oh, yes," said she, "it is--this is quite a new drug. It must work,
M`Bok K창rij창h brought it to me only this morning."

"Do you intend me to swallow that horrid stuff?"

"Come, Gulpie," said his wife, as she still held the spoon to his
mouth. "Now, don't be childish, swallow it at once. You will see how it
will work," continued she, as she patted his back with her hand. "Now,
there's a dear, swallow it down, and then I will tell you how I have
had as good a Hari ontong as you."

Whether his wife's coaxing words and ardent looks, or his intense
curiosity to know what she had to tell him, overcame his repugnance
matters but little. Suffice it to say, that the poor wretch shut
his eyes, and opened his mouth, while his wife, with the spoon, put
the pale-greenish mess upon his tongue. As he tasted it he heaved so
violently with intense disgust, that an explosion seemed imminent.

"Come, swallow, swallow!" cried Laurentia, again patting his back
with her soft hand. "So, so, that's right; and now clean the spoon,
the stuff is much too precious to waste."

So the unhappy man was compelled to lick up and swallow the last
vestige of the nauseous compound which clung to the spoon.

"And now," said he, "now for your story."

"Come here, Gulpie," said his wife, in her most coaxing manner. "Come
here and sit down by me on the divan, and I will tell you all
about it." She took up the box from the table, and seating herself
cross-legged on the divan after the fashion of the natives, she drew
her husband close to her side.

And now she proceeded to relate to him how M`Bok K창rij창h had, in
the strictest confidence, told her how madly Lim Ho was in love with
the baboe Dalima, and, as if they both did not know that well enough
already, she added, with a strange smile, that he would do anything
in the world to gain possession of the maiden. The forcible abduction
from under the very eyes of her mistress was indeed proof sufficient
of the ardour of his passion, and the poor fellow had been most
grievously disappointed that he had been unable to attain his object.

