Fair Laurentia did not tell her husband all this simply, and as
a matter of fact story. No, no, she was an artiste in the arts of
wheedling and seduction. She took her time and knew how to impart to
her tale the necessary shades and tints--here and there seeming to
hesitate as if modestly disinclined to enter into somewhat questionable
details; and then again at the right moment launching out into a
freedom of speech which threatened to become impassioned if it did
not indeed actually border upon the indecent. And so she managed to
finish her story by a glowing description of the ardent Chinaman and
the personal charms of lovely Dalima.

Van Gulpendam had first listened to her attentively, her highly
coloured narrative had greatly interested him. But--Was it the effect
of the drug he had swallowed, or was it an occasional peep into fair
Laurentia's half-open kabaja, or were there other influences at work
which made him lose his mental balance? At all events, the man was
trembling with excitement when his fair neighbour brought her story
to an end with the words:

"M`Bok K창rij창h implored me to lend her my assistance and to exert my
influence with Dalima to make her yield to Lim Ho's ardent passion. As
earnest of the man's gratitude she offered me this."

Thus saying, Laurentia opened the box and drew forth a magnificent
red coral necklace depending from which hung a large rosette of
precious stones.

"Look, Gulpie, look!" she cried, triumphantly, "these brilliants
alone are worth more than ten thousand guilders," and as she spoke
she threw the necklace over her well-shaped shoulders. The deep red
corals showed off splendidly on the soft pearly white skin, while
the rich clasp of jewels lay glittering on her heaving bosom.

But van Gulpendam had no eyes for the costly gift. He clasped his
fair wife to his breast as he exclaimed beside himself with passion:

"You are lovely, my Laurentia! You are too lovely!"

"The drug, the drug," cried she, "you see it is the drug! M`Bok
K창rij창h has surpassed herself. You see, Gulpie, you see!"

