"Yes; darling Laurie," cried he, in ecstasy. "It must be the stuff. I
feel it working in my veins."

"Indeed, indeed, this is--this is indeed, a lucky day!"








CHAPTER VII.

A TRAITOR IN THE DESSA.


About twelve miles to the south-east of Santjoemeh, in a hilly country
which offers to the eye a continual succession of picturesque and
lovely views, lies the little dessa Kaligaweh. It is situated in the
centre of an extensive forest of cocoa-nut trees which encloses it as
in a circle of emerald, and which, viewed from an eminence close by,
resembles a mighty garland of verdure whose tops waving in the gentle
breeze have the appearance of a frame of grass-green lace-work.

This cocoa-nut forest may be said to form the outer court of the
dessa, for the village itself lies concealed in a thick grove of
fruit-trees in which the most splendid mangoes, the most delicious
ramboetans, the most refreshing assams, the juiciest bliembiengs,
the most fragrant djeroeks and the coolest djamboes, and many other
gifts of intertropical Pomona grow up and flourish in the richest
luxuriance. Here and there tufts of underwood fill the spaces between
the little huts and the trees, and flowers in the wildest profusion
fill the air with their fragrance and enchant the eye by their rich
but harmonious diversity of colour.

The dessa itself is enclosed by dense rows of bamboo, the thick and
tall Black bamboo, which furnishes the natives with the most useful
building material, and whose long massive stalks growing quite close
together and gracefully bending under the load of the heavy plumage
of verdure they have to support, form an almost impenetrable hedge,
while at the same time they cast the most grateful shade over the
enclosure within.

Kaligaweh was but an inconsiderable dessa. Some thirty or forty huts
scattered here and there in picturesque disorder among the fruit
trees formed the centre of the small community. The inhabitants of
this spot so highly favoured by nature occupied themselves, for the
most part, with the culture of rice to which the soil was admirably
adapted, and the fruitful rice-fields rose all around in the form of an
amphitheatre on the hill-slopes. The lower grounds contained several
fish-ponds well stocked with bandengs, djampals, Cataks, Gaboes, and
many other kinds of fish, all of them highly esteemed by the European
and Chinese inhabitants of Santjoemeh, and therefore fetching good
prices in the market of that place. Hence the population of Kaligaweh
might have been a highly prosperous and flourishing community, had
it not been for the ravages which one fatal and all-destructive pest
spread among them. Their bane was the passion for opium. That fatal
drug had undermined not only their prosperity, but broken down also
the constitutions of all those who gave themselves up to its use. It
was a sad fact, alas, that the great majority of those who dwelt
in Kaligaweh were enslaved to it; but sadder yet it was that there
were not a few among them who could recall the good time when the
name of opium was scarcely known there. In that short space of time,
how complete a change had come over so lovely a spot!

