About twelve years ago a native of the dessa, who, in his youth had
left it to seek his fortune elsewhere, returned to Kaligaweh. This
man, whose name was Singomengolo, but who usually was known as Singo,
had let loose the opium fiend upon the quiet and innocent little
dessa in which he was born.

Singo, on leaving home, had fallen into the hands of the recruiting
serjeants. By encouraging his innate passion for gambling,
and by initiating him into the mysteries of opium smoking, these
soul-destroyers had, in an unguarded moment, induced him to enlist,
and thus to bind himself to the service for a period of six years. The
wretches helped the miserable man soon to get rid of the bounty in
opium-dens, in gambling houses, at cock-fights, and in excesses of
all kinds. Then for six years he was a soldier.

As soon as his time of service had expired, Singo left the army in
which he had acquitted himself with some credit, and obtained a place
as oppasser (policeman) under one of the government controllers in
the interior of the island. He soon gave evidence of considerable
skill as a detective, and earned for himself the reputation of a
very sharp and clever officer. This reputation brought him under the
notice of one of the agents of the opium farmer for the district,
who recommended him to the Company; and the Company, appreciating his
services, obtained for him the place of bandoelan or opium-detective
at their chief office at Santjoemeh.

In that capacity, his dexterity and cunning, not only in the detection
of opium smuggling but also in bringing to light other mysterious and
shady transactions, won him the warm support of Lim Yang Bing, the
wealthy opium farmer, who used constantly to employ him, especially in
cases which had baffled the shrewdest of his agents and spies. Singo's
services were, in fact, invaluable to his master; for whenever,
for some reason or other, a man stood in the rich Chinaman's way,
Singo could always be depended upon to find smuggled opium in his
possession, though the victim might not have perhaps, in all his life,
so much as seen the drug.

