In the year 1874 Babah Lim Yang Bing, by sheer dint of bribery,
contrived to get the number of opium stores in his district increased
by ten; and among the unfortunate dessas which were thus poisoned
by sanction of the Dutch government, was Kaligaweh. Now, it was
easy enough to set up an opium den in the little village; but it
was quite another matter to make it pay, which was all Lim Yang Bing
cared for. As soon as the government had granted the license, an opium
store arose in Kaligaweh, a hole filthy in the extreme, so as to remain
faithful to the tradition of such dens. Over the door appeared a black
board on which in huge white letters were conspicuously painted the
words, "Opium store," in Dutch, in Javanese, and in Chinese, and in
the characters peculiar to those tongues. The two Chinamen, who were
entrusted with its management, did their very best to attract people,
they lavished their most winning smiles upon the passers-by, they
exhausted every means of enticing them to enter; but it was all in
vain. Not a single man ever ventured to set foot in the noisome hole.

Babah Lim Yang Bing was not slow to perceive that so good an example
would become contagious, and might spread among the other dessas
of his district. It was quite obvious to the most casual observer,
that Kaligaweh and its environs were wealthy and prosperous out of all
comparison with the places where the opium trade flourished. Why, the
mere outward appearance of its people was quite enough to show this;
and the broad chests and sinewy arms of its men, and the firmly rounded
hips and full shoulders of its women and girls, whose bronzed skin
bore the ruddy glow of health, formed the most startling contrast with
the ghastly, sunken countenances, and shrivelled frames of the walking
skeletons which one encountered in other less favoured localities.

But, chiefly was the eye of that cunning Chinaman attracted by the rich
rice-fields which covered the entire district, and which pleasantly
surrounded its little dessas nestling in the dark foliage of their
fruit trees as islets amidst a sea of emerald, when the young crops
imparted light and cheerfulness to the scene; or presently again would
encircle these dessas as in a bright band of gold, when the stalks,
ripening under the tropical sun, were bending under their weight of
grain, and waved to the soft harvest breeze.

