In whatever season of the year, or from whatever side one might,
at that time, approach Kaligaweh, its fields testified to the
frugal industry of its inhabitants. They always spoke of regular and
systematic cultivation, and of careful and constant irrigation, and
they thus loudly proclaimed--a fact with which the reader is already
acquainted--that its people were prosperous and happy, and led very
different lives to the squalid and wretched existence which was
dragged out in the places where the passion for opium had taken root.

All this it was Lim Yang Bing's purpose to alter. Not only was the
material welfare of the dessa a thorn in his side; but his covetous
nature longed to transfer the earnings of its simple and frugal
population to his own already over-filled pockets. His attempt with
the opium-store had hitherto, we have seen, borne no fruit; it had
proved a failure, and had brought loss rather than profit to its
owner. He had determined, at any cost, to bring about a change.

On a certain evening, it was towards the end of harvest, the population
of Kaligaweh, men and women, young men and maidens, were returning
homewards from the fields. The women had been hard at work all day,
handling the sickles and cutting the ripe grain from the stalks,
while the men had been no less busily engaged in taking the little
bundles from the hands of the reapers, and binding them together
into big bundles. The faces of all were flushed with exertion, and
glowing with satisfaction, for the crop this year was a heavy one;
no plagues of any kind had interfered with its growth, so that the
landowners looked forward to laying up many pikols in their barns,
and the more humble labourers could count upon a plentiful payment
in kind. That, in itself, was quite sufficient to account for the
universal good-humour and gaiety which prevailed.

The rice-harvest is, indeed, in the rural districts of the rich
island of Java, a great national festival, a day of joy, which,
for its simple people, has more real significance than all the
other Mahommedan festivals. It is then for them fair time. Clad in
their gay, many-coloured dresses, the women and maidens assemble on
the green; then many a heart, for the first time, feels the tender
passion; then many an old love-affair is settled, and many a "yes"
is softly murmured. The climate, the surrounding scenery in those
glad harvest-fields, all invite to merriment and glee. True it is,
we must not deny it, that, on such occasions, unguarded innocence is
sometimes betrayed, and that, now and then, an offering is brought
to the shrine of Lucina; but, much more frequently, the vows then
made will presently be ratified and confirmed by the priest, and,
at the very worst, no such frightful consequences ensue as are wont
to arise in more highly civilized society.

