On this evening, as the merry bands of reapers approached the dessa,
the lively tones of the cymbal fell upon their ears. The people looked
at one another in astonishment at the unwonted sounds, and were at
a loss to know who had prepared for them this pleasant surprise.

When they came to the village green, they saw two booths erected under
the splendid Wariengien or wild-fig trees which overshadowed the dessa,
and over each of these booths there waved the Dutch flag.

One of them was, as yet, closed, but in the back of the other were
seated, cross-legged, a band of musicians, who made the air resound
with their inspiriting strains. In front of this orchestra, a space was
left vacant, the ground of which had been levelled and sprinkled with
fine sand, and the booth was fairly well illuminated with lanterns of
various colours. A loud cheer arose from the village crowd, for now
they began to see that they might expect a much richer treat than a
mere concert.

Singomengolo, whom Lim Yang Bing had despatched with plenary powers
to Kaligaweh and who had provided this entertainment for his friends
in the dessa, was standing close by leaning up against one of the
bamboo stems, which supported the roof of the booth, and was, with
sundry nods and smiles, welcoming the fresh arrivals who were, for
the most part, old acquaintances of his, and who warmly greeted him
on his return to the dessa.

In a twinkling, the sickles, the bands of straw, and the bundles of
rice were stowed away, and the broad-brimmed hats, with which the
labourers protected themselves at their work from the full glare of
the mid-day sun, were laid aside. Soon the entire population came
crowding to the green, and romping and playing filled the open space
in front of the booth, then by degrees seated themselves on the soft
carpet of tuft.

Meanwhile, the sun had gone down in the West, and the stars were
coming out one by one, and began to show their soft and twinkling
light, while the moon, rising in the dark blue vault of heaven as a
large blood-red disc, shed the fantastic shadows of the Wariengien
trees upon the assembled groups. Round about the tree-tops innumerable
swarms of bats flitted in giddy mazes uttering their peculiar, short,
shrill cry, and high above them, in the evening air, sundry flying
squirrels kept circling round mysteriously, who seemed to be selecting
the juiciest fruits on which, presently, they intended to make a feast.

