When all were seated, and some degree of order had been obtained;
at a signal from Singo, the cymbals and all the instruments in the
orchestra struck up, and filled the air with pleasant melody.

"Bogiro, Bogiro!" shouted the younger and more enthusiastic part of
the audience.

That first piece, indeed, which may most fitly be compared with our
overture, is one in which all the instruments of a Javanese orchestra
play together, and which serves as an introduction to the programme
which is to follow. At times, it must be said, the cymbals would
make a most discordant and deafening noise, but this was varied
now and then by solos which were musical and pleasant enough to the
ear. Evidently the musicians were this evening on their mettle, they
exerted themselves to the utmost to deserve the applause of their
simple audience; and the profound silence with which that wanton and
excitable crowd sat listening, sufficiently testified to the success
of their endeavours.

At the last clash of the cymbals, the people broke silence, and by
ringing shouts and lively cheers gave vent to their satisfaction as
a Westerly audience would have shown its approval by clapping of hands.

Singomengolo, with the help of a couple of his assistants, and
aided by the two Chinamen who kept the opium-store, then offered the
notables, who were present, cigars wrapped in leaves, while sweets and
confectionery were handed round to the more distinguished ladies of
the company. Round the two booths several stalls had been erected,
at which the lower classes could go and gratify their tastes. The
satisfaction of these poor people was unbounded, when they found that
all these dainties were provided free of charge, and that it was
in this generous manner that Singo had determined to celebrate his
return among them. On all sides, praises and thanks were lavished on
his liberality. But the tempter took good care not to let them know
that the tobacco of which those pleasant little cigars were made had
been well steeped in infusion of opium, and that the pernicious juice
of the Polyanthes tuberosa largely entered into the composition of the
nice sweets he had so bountifully served out. Perfectly unconscious
of this treachery the poor people thoroughly enjoyed their treat,
and were loud in praises to their generous friend.

