Presently, the cymbal was heard again, and every one hurried back
to his seat. At the first notes of the piece which followed a loud
cheer arose; "Taroe Polo, Taroe Polo" was the cry as the people
recognised the well known sounds, then all sat silent and listened
with rapt attention.

The story or legend of which the musicians were about to give a musical
interpretation, was familiar to almost every inhabitant of the dessa,
yet here and there small groups gathered round some old man as he
told the oft-repeated tale to his younger friends.

The music of Java is the interpretation, the embodiment, the rhythmical
expression of the numberless fables, legends, and romantic tales
current in the island. It is inseparably connected with them just
as appropriate gesture and modulation of the voice are the necessary
accompaniments of oratory. Of these legends the story of Taroe Polo
is one of the prettiest and well-calculated to awaken the softest
emotions in the breast of the susceptible Javanese.

In very low tones, which blended with the notes of the music, but
yet in an audible voice, the old man said:

Taroe Polo was a young prince who one day while he was out hunting lost
his way in the dense tropical forest, and as he was wandering about,
suddenly came upon an old ruinous palace the existence of which had
never been suspected. Making his way through the tangled undergrowth,
he soon came up to the walls and entered the ruin. As he roamed about
the spacious and much decayed galleries, he was greatly surprised to
find himself in an apartment which the hand of time had spared, and
which retained all its former freshness and splendour. As he looked
round in amazement at so sudden and strange a sight, his eye lit upon
a young damsel of wondrous beauty surrounded by a train of attendants,
who, although unable to vie with their mistress in loveliness, yet
were all comely and young. She was a princess, a king's daughter,
confined by the cruelty of her mother to that lonely spot, because she
would give no ear to the suit of an old though powerful monarch, who
was anxious to make her his bride. The moment prince Taroe Polo caught
sight of this enchanting vision, he felt a fire kindle in his breast,
and casting himself down at her feet, he began to pour out to her the
tale of his passionate love; hear how well the little silver cymbal
and the strips of resonant wood struck with small hammers with their
soft silvery tones express the tender feelings of the prince, how they
seem to sing, to woo, to implore as the young man kneels to his love.

