The young maiden listens but too willingly to his eager suit, her
bosom heaves, she sighs, the flute with its languishing notes quite
plainly tells the tale.

But she is compelled to repress her emotion, for she is guarded by
her attendants, who are her mother's slaves, and who one and all
will be ready to betray her. She replies in broken accents, in single
syllables, the harp faithfully gives back her confusion.

Gently however, and with the cunning of love she tries to get rid,
if but for a few moments, of those who stand around her. She succeeds,
and now the passionate joy of the lovers breaks forth unrestrained. How
well that burst of passion is rendered in full symphony by the two
stringed viol, the accordian, the flute and the zither. Thus having,
for a while, given way to their feelings, they suddenly remember
that they can never win the mother's consent, that her followers are
incorruptible and that their only chance of bliss is to flee away
together--far away to the mountains. The lovely princess, however,
will not yield, her maiden pride refuses to take the irrevocable
step. But the prayers of Taroe Polo, now soft as the gentle breeze
which rustles in the tree-tops, then vehement and passionate as the
tempest blast which howls over the fields--at length prevail. Her
own heart pleads for him, her love is sounding his praise, still she
wavers, she hesitates. But the thought of her mother and of the fate
which awaits her should the secret of her love become known, quite
overcomes her. With downcast eyes, but with a smile of joy she casts
herself into the arms of her love, and with him she flies--she flies to
the blue mountains, which loom far away in the mist. The whole Javanese
orchestra celebrates this happy close with a full burst of melody,
the cymbals with rapid clang indicate the swiftness of their flight,
and then the coy sighs of the maiden are succeeded by the jubilant
song of the prince, and a loud clash of victory brings the piece to
a triumphant close.

