The whole population of Kaligaweh--simple folk--sat awe-struck
listening with breathless attention until the last sounds of the
gamelang had faded, quivering away in the distance.

The moon had meanwhile risen, had lost her blood-red hue and was now
prying down upon that rustic village green through the tall Wariengien
trees and flooding all those who sat there with silvery light.

By this time the other booth had been opened and within a group of men
could be seen cleverly manipulating some packs of Chinese cards. Your
Javanese is a born gambler. With him the love of play is the ruling
passion, nay the mother of all others, which without that excitement
might be harmless enough.

The sight of that booth is irresistible, many of the men rise at once
to take part in the seductive game, whilst others who are anxious
to see the theatrical performance which was to follow, begin to ask
Singo or his attendants for one of those cigars which they had found
so delicious. The poor little women too are so fond of those nice
little sweetmeats and cannot help showing that a second edition of
those dainties would not be unwelcome. But, the crafty minions of
Lim Yang Bing were on the watch. With the most pleasant smiles they
told the company that the supply intended for free distribution
had come to an end; but that the stall-keepers were ready to sell
cigars and sweetmeats to anyone who would pay for them. It was a sore
disappointment; the stall-keepers were ready to sell, but where was the
money to come from? For though we know that the people of Kaligaweh
were in every way prosperous, yet there was but very little of the
filthy dross of this world among them.

Singomengolo read their feelings at once, and with devilish craft he
pointed to the open gambling booth. There, he grinned, plenty of all
sorts of coins could be picked up in a few minutes. It was a mere
matter of luck.

His words acted like oil cast upon the fire.

"But to play, one must have ready money to stake," suggested one of
the bystanders.

