And how then about the rice which you have just brought home? said
the tempter with a leer worthy of Satan himself.

A new light dawned upon the wretched people. The rice, of course,
how was it that they had never thought of that?

"And will they take rice for payment?" asked one.

"Take it?" cried Singo, "of course they will and allow you the full
market value for it." "And," continued the tempter, "You can see for
yourselves that to-day is a lucky day for you. Look at Pak Ardjan
how he is rattling the rix-dollars. It was true enough, there stood
Pak Ardjan, the father of the late mate--there he stood dancing and
jumping about like a madman, while he rattled in his closed hands
the three rix-dollars he had just won. Three rix-dollars! Why that
was at least half a month's wages! And to win all that money in a
few minutes! All one wanted was but a little pluck--fortune would be
kind enough." Thus spake many of the poor creatures, little knowing
what nets were spread around them. Still there was a great deal of
hesitation--men had not altogether taken leave of their senses. The
great majority still held back, and but very few bundles of rice had
found their way to the gambling booth.

Just then--Kaseran and Wongsowidjojo and Kamidin, and Sidin, and so
many others began to cut the same capers as Pak Ardjan. They also
danced about, they also shouted for joy, they showed the people--the
one three, the other five, a third seven, and yet another ten guilders
which they had made in a twinkling. That Singo really was an excellent
fellow, he had returned to make the fortunes of all his friends.

Then there was no holding them. Soon the whole booth was full of
men blindly intent upon tempting fortune, while outside the cymbal
resounded, and the voices of the actresses(?) were beginning to make
themselves heard.

But the keepers of the gambling-booth were no fools. Their policy
was not to frighten the poor dessa-people at this first attempt; and
evidently only a very small portion of the rice-harvest had fallen
into their hands. The cheerful and happy faces of the gamblers told
plainly enough that there were not many losers among them, and if here
and there one had been unlucky, it was always one who could very well
stand a slight reverse of fortune. In truth, the "croupiers" did but
very little business that night, though they were clever enough to take
care, now that the ball had been set rolling, that their losses were
not ruinously heavy. In fact, as the night grew on, the rix-dollars
of the winners were imperceptibly but surely melting away to guilders
and the guilders to still smaller change. Yet, on the whole, the
gamblers had won sufficient to make them all noisy and happy.

