At length came the hour of midnight, and the heavy gong was struck
at the guard-house. The booth-keepers declared that they intended to
close, that they had had a really bad night, and they actually did blow
out the candles and shut up the place. Many of the people were still
lingering about and listening to the cymbal and the craving for cigars
began to be felt again. Thus the stall keepers did a roaring trade,
and seeing that they also were in the pay of the Babah Lim Yang Bing
the money which the confederates had lost at cards, managed to come
back to them again through another channel, so that the sacrifice,
after all, was not a very alarming one.

At length the store of those pleasant cigars, which was not a very
large one to start with, was exhausted. Then, with an indescribably
low and nasty smile, Singo and his accomplices began to point to the
opium-den where, for the same money, much more real enjoyment could
be obtained.

In that wretched hole some girls were publicly seated on the rough
benches, and with their shapely fingers were daintily rolling the
little balls of opium, and casting seductive looks, coupled with
wanton gestures, at the poor victims who stood gazing at the open
door of that fatal den without being able quite to pluck up the
courage to enter. Alas! for many of them, the temptation was too
strong. Excited by the poison which they had already imbibed in
considerable quantity--seduced by the wanton allurements of those
fair women--first one gave way, then another, and although that night
not every compartment of the opium-den was occupied, yet the Chinamen
who kept it had every reason to be satisfied.

When Lim Yang Bing was told of the result of that night's work he
rubbed his hands together as he chuckled, that "Singomengolo is really
an invaluable fellow--I must not lose sight of him."








CHAPTER VIII.

DECAY OF THE DESSA.--ARREST OF PAK ARDJAN.


This first fairly successful attempt upon the little dessa was
systematically repeated, and every evening the inspiriting tones of
the cymbal resounded on the green of Kaligaweh, and every evening also
the temptations described in the former chapter were renewed. All this
might cost Lim Yang Bing some money at first; but he knew well enough
that he would be the gainer in the end and that his capital would soon
return to him with ample interest. By degrees it became less and less
necessary to allow the gamblers to win; and it was not very long before
such a thing only happened now and again so that the hope of gain might
not die out altogether. Gradually the poor deluded people began to
lose more and more; and one bundle of rice after another passed into
the hands of the sharpers who, it must be said, gave liberal prices;
and allowed somewhat more than the full market value for the produce.

