But it was not only the spirit of gambling which had thus been
aroused in Kaligaweh; together with that degrading passion--perhaps in
consequence of it--the abuse of opium began to increase to an alarming
extent. Six months, indeed, had scarcely elapsed before it became a
notorious fact that a very considerable part of the population had
taken to opium smoking; and--sadder still--that the opium farmers
found powerful allies in the women of the dessa, who very soon began
to perceive the influence which the drug had upon their husbands,
and who, instead of trying to arrest the unfortunate creatures on
their road to ruin, rather encouraged their fatal passion.

One reason of this was, that the terrible effects of the poison did
not at once manifest themselves. No--the enemy made his approaches
in the dark, he advanced slowly but surely.

At first the quantity used was but very small, a couple of matas
or so a day, not even as much as that, were for those primitive
people who were wholly unaccustomed to the drug quite sufficient to
procure blissful rest and delightful sleep, and to call up visions
of the houris with which Mohammed has peopled his paradise. Double
that quantity would produce exuberant gaiety and excite to the most
inordinate passions. And that peace, that excitement, that bliss could
be purchased at the opium-store for fourteen cents (about 2 1/2d.) a
mata. It was indeed dirt-cheap!

But--though in the beginning of his downward course, the opium smoker
could rest satisfied with so moderate an allowance--albeit even this
did not fail to make a breach in his modest budget seeing that the
expenditure was pretty constant--presently his constitution began to
get seasoned to it, and it took a much greater quantity of the poison
to have the desired effect. At first a man would only occasionally
indulge and take up the bedoedan (opium pipe) say, once a week; but
gradually his nervous system began to grow accustomed to the stimulant,
and then a craving for the poison began to be felt, so that already
several men could be pointed out who, as soon as the influence of the
narcotic had passed off, were dull, downcast, nervous and restless;
and who, in consequence, felt utterly miserable. There was but one
means to raise them out of their state of depression; and so they
would take up the bedoedan again and swallow another dose of the
poison. And thus by degrees it came to pass that at length there
was with them scarcely an interval between one fit of intoxication
and the next. That thus the prosperity of the dessa was inevitably
destined to disappear did not admit of the slightest doubt.

