Where was now the pleasant little cottage with its neat hedge of
golden-yellow bamboo and its clean dark-brown roof of thatch made of
leaves? Where was that comfortable little house in which Pak Ardjan
was wont to sit with wife and children, passing his days in peace
and cheerfully looking forward to the future?

Alas! the miserable hovel which now barely sheltered the once happy
family was small, low, close, in fact a ruin. The single room of which
it consisted was pervaded by that offensive musty smell which decaying
bamboo generally emits. One look at the walls, the lower parts of
which had already rotted away while the upper were rapidly crumbling
under the attacks of the white ant, and one glance at the roof which
was in one place bulging inwards and in another fast going to dust,
was quite sufficient to account for the closeness of the air. On
the bits of matting, which covered the still more filthy floor, the
children were rolling about, many of them naked as they were born,
while the mother and father, if he happened to be at home, clad in
rags which were never washed and were leaving their bodies in tatters
sat crouching on the floor stupidly gazing at the scene of desolation
before them. Gazing! aye, if the stony mechanical stare could be called
by that name. For the father had lost all consciousness of the hopeless
misery of his family. The frightful selfishness produced by the abuse
of opium: the constantly growing indifference to all things round
about him, even to his own wife and children; the rapidly increasing
love of idleness, and incapacity for work, for care, for exertion in
fact of any kind which at length made him utterly unable to think of
anything by day or night except of how he might gratify his passion
and the other cravings it engendered, and for which he was driven to
sacrifice everything. All this had clouded his sight, and as a man
stone-blind he was tottering on the very brink of a precipice.

Whilst he was in the first lethargic state brought on by the moderate
use of the narcotic, he would be quiet, peaceful and contented, and
would dose away and dream and build up for himself--for himself only--a
paradise in which none but sensual pictures presented themselves to
his eye and to his mind. Then as he continued to smoke, and when he
reached the next stage--the stage of frenzy--he would, regardless
of his children's presence, shamelessly pursue his wife round the
cabin, for at such times she seemed to him the houri of his dreams,
and then, in that wretched hovel at any hour of the night or day,
scenes would be enacted such as the poor innocent children ought never
to have witnessed. For, at such times the man was like a brute beast,
wholly incapable of bridling his degraded passions.

