So long as Ardjan, who was the eldest son, was but a child, the family
was plunged in the depths of bestial degradation; but when he had grown
up and, after having served awhile as a sailor in a government vessel,
had gone on board the Kiem Ping Hin, things began somewhat to mend
at home in the dessa. This was especially the case when young Ardjan,
who had a very good head on his shoulders, was promoted to be mate of
the smuggling brig. In that capacity he had constant opportunities
of handling the cargo, and of such a drug as opium, which takes up
but little space, he could very easily now and then appropriate to
himself quantities of comparatively considerable value. This he did
the more readily, and with the less reluctance, as his notions on
the meum and tuum were of the vaguest description. The opium thus
pilfered he used to deliver to his father who, in this manner, was
enabled, not only fully to indulge in his ruling passion, but also to
dispose of the superfluity to his neighbours. In this illegal traffic
Pak Ardjan frequently made considerable gains, which, however, far
from being of any substantial benefit to his empoverished household,
would always be squandered with lavish extravagance.

Such was the state of things when Resident van Gulpendam gave Lim Yang
Bing the hint that Pak Ardjan was, in the estimation of the police,
held to be a notorious smuggler.

From what has been said above it is evident that what the Resident
had said was true, the police had their suspicions, and had often
been on the old smuggler's track, without ever having been able to
bring the offence home to him. It must be said indeed, that so long
as Ardjan was on board the Kiem Ping Hin they made no very determined
efforts to convict his father. Equally true it was that Pak Ardjan,
not knowing at the time that his son lay under suspicion of having
brought on shore the discovered opium, had laid a formal accusation
against Lim Ho, on account of the brutal manner in which he had
treated his son. Now, the old opium-smoker had taken this step,
not because he felt any pity for his son, nor because he wished to
be revenged upon the Chinaman for the wrong he had thus inflicted
upon one of his family--still less had he done so because he was
anxious that the offender should receive condign punishment. Oh no,
Pak Ardjan was not actuated by any such motives as these.

