When he reached home his children informed him that Singomengolo had
made his appearance in the dessa, and had been making sundry enquiries
about him. The appearance itself of the man in the dessa, was nothing
very extraordinary, nor was it, under the circumstances, strange that
Pak Ardjan's name should have been mentioned by him. But somehow or
other an accountable feeling of distrust came over the old man which
impelled him to try and hide the opium he had about him. Now if he
had been in his normal condition he would straightway have returned
to the ravine and buried his treasure safely in its former hiding
place, before further steps could be taken against him. But the fit of
depression was on him, his nerves were again beginning to play tricks
with him, his mental powers were, as usual after prolonged abstinence,
growing confused--in short he was bordering on that stage in which he
would need another dose of opium to pick him up. Accordingly, he set
aside a couple of matas for his own use, and, having carefully wrapped
the remainder in nipah-leaves, he thrust the packets for concealment
behind the attapa-leaves which formed the crazy roof of his cabin.

This done, it was the old story again, and the whole family had to
set to work to minister to him in his disgusting opium debauch.

But as he lay stretched there on the bench, and just as he was
beginning to light his third pipe, before that, therefore, he was
wholly under the influence of the poppy-juice, Singomengolo suddenly
appeared on the door-step, accompanied by four or five policemen,
and by the two Chinamen, who kept the opium-store. The instant he
crossed the threshold, the bandoelan knew what was going on within,
although Pak Ardjan had started up, and with some dexterity, had
managed to hide his pipe under the filthy pillow which is inevitably
present on every couch, and his children had secreted the lamp and
the yet unsmoked opium.

The sickly sweetish smell, however, which pervaded the close stuffy
room could not deceive anyone, least of all a bandoelan so thoroughly
experienced as was the agent of the opium-farmer.

