"There has been opium smoked here!" he cried in a peremptory tone,
as he and his followers made their way into the cabin.

"Oh no," stammered Pak Ardjan in dismay, "oh no, indeed there has
not!" while his wife and children, like so many frightened sheep,
huddled together in a corner.

"Guard the door and the windows," cried Singo to his policemen, and
then turning again upon Pak Ardjan he repeated more sternly even than
before, "You have been smoking opium, I tell you!"

"Oh no, indeed I have not," replied the unfortunate man.

"Why there is the pipe," cried the opium hunter, as he triumphantly
drew the corpus delicti from under the pillow. "Why here is the pipe,
and quite hot too!"

Pak Ardjan already beside himself with fear felt completely crushed
at this evident proof of his guilt.

"Where is the opium?" asked Singomengolo in threatening tones.

Pak Ardjan returned no answer.

"Well, never mind," said Singo, "we shall soon find it," and a horrid
smile crossed his lips.

He made a signal to the Chinamen, and to the policemen who were not
engaged in watching the door and windows; and then ensued a search, we
may call it a hunt, the description of which may well seem incredible
to those who do not know that such frightful scenes are not at all
of uncommon occurrence.

Under the couch, under the mats which covered the floor, they
searched, they rooted up the very floor of the cabin, they poked
about under the stove and in the ashes of that very primitive kind
of cooking-apparatus; pillows were rent open, and their contents
scattered on the floor; the few boxes and baskets were torn open,
and the noisome rags they contained were shaken and contemptuously
flung aside; the poor miserable furniture, a few pots and pans, the
rice-kettle, the tombok-block, the rice-panniers, even the sirih-box
were turned over, but nothing--nothing could they find.

Singomengolo was angry. Now he ordered a body-search to be made.

First they seized upon Pak Ardjan and, though he offered some
resistance, he was, with sundry kicks and blows, very soon shaken
out of the few filthy rags which hung about him, and, in his hideous
leanness, he stood there naked before the eyes of his family. The
sense of decency, which never leaves even the most utterly degraded,
made the poor man cower down moaning to the ground trying to hide
his nakedness from the eyes of his children.

