Then came the mother's turn, and the turn of the children--some of
them girls from seven to fourteen years of age. Regardless alike of
the mother's feelings or of the innocence of childhood, the inhuman
monsters proceeded in their search, and a scene was then enacted so
hideous, so disgusting, that over it we must draw a veil.

The children cried, the girls sobbed and wept, the mother shrieked
under this base and violent treatment, it was of no avail. But
presently, one of the policemen rudely seized upon the eldest daughter,
poor little Sarina, a girl of fourteen; she, in her fright, dropped
her sarong, and uttered a scream of terror. That cry made Pak Ardjan
bound to his feet, madly he flung himself upon the cowardly wretch,
with one wrench he dragged the fellow's sabre from its scabbard,
and with its edge he dealt the miscreant two such blows as sent him,
sorely wounded and howling with pain, flying from the scene of his
dastardly exploit. But the poor father thus goaded to madness and
blinded by fury, whose withered arm and wasted frame could not endure
any sustained exertion, was at once overpowered and disarmed before he
could strike another blow in defence of his outraged household. They
bound him most cruelly, they tied his ankles together and forced
the rough and prickly gemoetoe-cords between his toes, which at
the slightest movement, put the unfortunate man to excruciating
torture. Next they proceeded to handcuff him; but, as the manacles were
much too wide to confine his shrivelled wrists, they drove in between
the arm and the iron, rough pieces of firewood, and this caused such
intolerable pain that a lamentable howl came from Pak Ardjan's lips--a
howl most like that of some poor beast in its dying agony.

But now the opium? The opium? Hitherto none had been found.

Singomengolo stood scratching his ear. He was, indeed, in a most
awkward predicament.

"What a rage the Kandjeng toean Resident will be in," muttered he. But
he did not mind him much. He would bluster no doubt a good deal and
bark; but he would take good care not to bite.

