But, what would Babah Lim Yang Bing think of it? might he not look
with suspicion upon all this fruitless zeal.

And then the newspapers! What if they began to talk--and talk those
confounded papers would there could be no doubt about it.

And the judges! What if they should take it up? They must take it up of
course. Pak Ardjan had violently, and with arms in his hand, resisted
the police--the opium police. And that was a crime which could not
be hushed up. That was one of the offences which the Dutchmen always
punished with the greatest severity. Yes, but then the fact would come
out that there had been a visitation, a pretty severe visitation,
and that nothing had been found. And then other matters might, and
would probably, leak out. Aye, they had handled the little girls a
little too brutally. And those judges were such an inquisitive lot,
they were sure to get to the bottom of it all. He was in an awkward
plight. Oh! had he but found the opium! Or better still, had he but
taken his usual precautions!

"And yet," muttered he, as his hawk-like eye darted round the little
hut, "I had such very precise instructions. I was to wait until Pak
Ardjan had returned from the ravine, then--But would it not have been
much wiser to surprise him in the ravine?--No, no--that would never
have done--he might have sworn that he had found the opium there by
chance, and those judges are so lenient, they will believe anything,
and they never convict if there is the possibility of a doubt. No, no,
the opium must--it shall--be found in Pak Ardjan's own possession,
that only will be conclusive evidence of guilt. But--I cannot find
it--Eh! eh!" he exclaimed, "what have we here?" With one bound
Singomengolo reached the corner where a slight bulge in the roof
seemed to look as if it had quite lately been disturbed. The edges
of the nipah-leaves did not look quite so dark in that spot as the
others which had been exposed to the smoke. The bandoelan thrust his
hand into the roof, he felt about for a few moments, and then, he drew
forth two small parcels. These he hastily unwrapped and uttered a cry
of triumph. It was the opium which Pak Ardjan had tried to hide just
before his house was searched. "You lie, you scoundrel!" roared he,
to the wretched Javanese, as he dealt him a blow in the face with
the back of his hand, which made the blood to spurt from his lips.

