But the latter replied not a word.

When the captured opium had been duly examined by the witnesses,
the detected criminal was flung into a filthy sedan-chair carried by
some natives who had been pressed for that service. Thus under proper
escort and guard, Pak Ardjan was conveyed to Santjoemeh, and lodged
in the jail.

A few days later Resident van Gulpendam laid a formal charge
against Pak Ardjan before the court at Santjoemeh. He was accused of
opium-smuggling, and of having violently, and with arms in his hands,
resisted the police in the execution of their duty; one of the officers
having received serious wounds in the affray.

Mr. Zuidhoorn, the President, read over the charge, and as he read
he could not conceal a bitter smile. "It is disgusting," muttered he,
"disgusting!"








CHAPTER IX.

NJONJA MAHAL--THE THREE FRIENDS.


When Lim Yang Bing informed his son of the arrest of his accuser Pak
Ardjan, and communicated to him some of the details of the capture, Lim
Ho chuckled with delight. "That's one good riddance, at all events,"
quoth he, to himself. "Now, with a very little management on our part,
that fellow will be found guilty and sent to the devil long before his
son's smuggling case can come on at all. The most dangerous witness
will then be out of the way."

Then, for a while, Lim Ho seemed lost in thought. He had made the
njonja of the Resident a very handsome and valuable present of
jewellery, in return for which he had got nothing but a mere empty
promise that she would see what she could do for him in the way of
inducing the girl to listen to his proposals. "Indeed! njonja mahal,
an expensive lady," he muttered. "By Kong, what will be her price if
I should need her active help in the case of the girl's refusal? Mercy
on me! that will cost a pretty penny."

But Pak Ardjan's arrest gave another direction to his thoughts.

"No, the girl is not to be won, of that I am certain, she hates me too
much to consent. But that is precisely the thing which makes her so
attractive to me. She is an elegant, pretty girl! That's true enough,
but there are many other good-looking maidens in the dessas--That's
tame, I know all about them. No, no, to make the rebellious hussy
bend to my will; to cover her, who detests me, with my kisses; to
have her, who despises me, in my arms; and then--yes, then, when I
am tired of her, and she is soiled and faded body and soul--then to
be able to trample upon her, and fling her from me. That, look you,
is the highly flavoured dish which, in my pursuit of her, I intend to
enjoy. And, by Kong, I shall have my way, too. How? that I don't know,
just yet. By force or by cunning? that matters little--if needs be,
by both!"

