Springing up from his couch, Lim Ho ran to a small gong which stood
by a pillar, supported on a very elegant foot of china, and with a
small stick, which was carved in the shape of a crocodile's head,
the emblem of Ngoh, the water-god, he struck two sharp blows upon
the clear-toned metal.

A gaudily dressed Javanese servant immediately made his appearance,
walked up to the divan, and, squatting down before it, placed his
hands to his forehead, and obsequiously made his "sembah."

"Do you think, Drono," asked Lim Ho, "that Singomengolo is still
at Santjoemeh?"

"I saw him only this morning, babah," replied Drono, as he repeated
his sembah.

"Then run and fetch him at once," said his master. "You will find him,
I have no doubt, somewhere about the opium-store. Tell him I want to
speak to him. Make haste!"

"Sajah babah," said the man, as he glided back a few paces, then rose,
and with his face still turned to his master, made his way out of
the room.

"Yes," continued Lim Ho to himself, pursuing the thoughts which the
entrance of the servant had interrupted. "Yes, if it were but for a
few weeks, in that time, I have no doubt, I could find some means of
enticing little Dalima. The njonja Resident might be most useful to me
in this. But it will cost money! No matter, there is no lack of that!"

He rose again and struck the gong, and another Javanese servant
presented himself.

"Has Drono gone yet?" asked Lim Ho.

"Not yet, babah," was the man's reply, "but he is just about to start."

"Very well, then run and call him back," ordered Lim Ho.

A moment later Lim Ho's confidential servant again stood before him.

"Before you go to look for Singo," said the master, "you must go to
the house of M`Bok K창rij창h, and you must tell her that I want to see
her here as soon as possible."

"Saja-babah," said Drono, as again he made the sembah.

"Yes," cried Lim Ho, impatiently, "but be off at once. Saja-babah."

The next day, M`Bok K창rij창h entered the Residence, and asked to see
the njonja besar, or great lady. She was admitted at once, for it was
morning, and Laurentia had just finished attending to her household
duties, and had given out all that was needful to the cook. She was at
that moment engaged in changing her morning kabaai for another one,
made of fine lawn trimmed with lace. Indeed, the lady's doors were
never closed to the old quack, and she would always receive her,
at any hour of the day, if she could possibly do so.

