"Good morning, njoonjaa," said the old woman, in that drawling tone
so peculiar to the obsequious Javanese, while she squatted down at
the European lady's feet.

"Tabeh nènèh," replied Laurentia.

"Did the obat have the desired effect?" began the old hag.

"Oh yes," replied Laurentia; "it worked admirably, you must let me
have a good supply of it."

"That is what I intended to do, njonja, but the ingredients, you know,
are so difficult to get, they are so expensive."

Laurentia took a small purse from her work-basket, and put a couple
of rix-dollars into the old woman's hand.

"There," said she, "take that to buy them, and mind you let me have
some soon."

The crone took the money, and tied it up in the corner of a dirty
handkerchief, from which a bunch of keys was dangling, and, with
a cunning leer, she assured the lady that she would have no reason
to complain.

Then she began to talk about master Leo, and to tell Laurentia what
a dear, clever little chap he was, and how everyone in the street
turned back to look at the little fellow as he passed. No doubt,
now and then, an eye might be cast on the baboe also who had charge
of him; for, there could be no question about it, the baboe was
exceedingly pretty. Really, the njonja ought not to allow such a
girl to go about so freely; she was too good-looking, and there are
always people wicked enough to take advantage of innocence. The njonja
knew that well enough, and it would be such a pity if the poor girl
should get into bad hands. There was so much money to be made out
of her. So the old hag rattled on; and so, in a disjointed way, and
by degrees, she told Laurentia that Lim Ho's passion for Dalima was
daily increasing in violence, and that every day he was prepared to
make greater sacrifices to gain possession of her. Then Laurentia's
greedy eye began to glisten, and cunning old M`Bok was clever enough
to see that she might safely venture.

Bending forward, but still keeping her watchful eye fixed on
Laurentia's face, she went on for some time speaking in whispers,
and seemed to be arousing the lady's keenest attention; for evidently
Laurentia did not lose a word, and frequently nodded in token of
assent. When the nènèh had finished speaking, Mrs. van Gulpendam did
not at once reply, but, for awhile, seemed lost in meditation. At
length she said:

