"No, no, nèh," said Laurentia, interrupting her; "but if you should
happen to know of some bracelets."

"Bracelets, njonja? of what kind?"

"Golden ones, of course," replied Mrs. van Gulpendam. "A little while
ago I saw some that I should very much like to have; the Chinese
major's daughter was wearing them. They were beauties, serpents of
old gold which went three or four times round the wrist and they had
eyes of brilliants and in their mouth was a rose-coloured diamond
as thick as that, look!" And the njonja at these words held up her
little finger.

Old M`Bok Kârijâh devoured, so to speak, the words which she heard.

"If," continued the njonja, "you could find me such a pair of
bracelets, I should think them well worth having and--there might be
a little profit for you too."

These words were uttered in the most careless manner possible, though
Laurentia's eyes seemed to pierce the old woman as she spoke them.

"Saja, njonja," replied M`Bok, scrambling to her feet; "Good morning,
njonja."

"Good morning, nèh," said the lady.

Half an hour after this interview Lim Ho uttered a frightful curse
as again and again he repeated the words, "An expensive lady!"

But he was too much intent upon his purpose to hesitate and so next
day he handed M`Bok the bracelets for which she had asked him.

Before proceeding further with our story, we shall have to give
the reader some information concerning Mr. van Nerekool, the young
lawyer to whom Anna van Gulpendam had appealed for help in her
anxiety to save Ardjan, the future husband of her favourite servant
Dalima. Hitherto the narrative has carried us away, now it is time
to cast a look backward.

Charles van Nerekool was, as we have seen, a fine tall young man of
about five or six-and-twenty years of age, with handsome clearly
cut features, a light beard and moustache and thick curly hair of
a somewhat darker shade. He had studied at Leyden, the Athens of
Holland. But though he had passed all his examinations most creditably,
yet, he could not help confessing to himself that he had not altogether
done justice to his great abilities. Both at the Grammar School and
at the University he had passed for a somewhat absent and careless
fellow in his studies. He had, from his early youth, been too much
inclined to waste his time on objectless hobbies; but they were hobbies
which showed that his mind was one of no ordinary stamp. Mighty fond
was he, when a boy, of all kinds of things which lay outside the
regular routine of his school duties. First and foremost, he loved
music, then drawing, painting, in fact, the general contemplation of
nature. Consequently, he had frequently been kept in for neglecting his
lessons; but the boy did not much mind that; and on such occasions he
would go away into a corner of the schoolroom and sit and dream. Then,
as he sat there all alone with his fair head turned upward to the
clear blue sky, some one would say, "Poor child, he is not long for
this world, it will end in consumption." But Charles van Nerekool
was not at all consumptive; for it happened with him, as with so many
other seemingly delicate boys, that the approach of manhood brought
with it robust health. When quite a child he had had the misfortune to
lose his father. Spiteful tattling people, such persons as are always
most anxious about things which in no way concern them, would have
it that that father had never existed, or to speak more correctly,
would have it that it was never known who was that father. What reason
had they for flinging about these suspicions? Why? none at all. It was
all the merest tittle-tattle, the merest putting together of trifling
circumstances. Even at the name van Nerekool the busy-bodies would
shake their heads and suggest that it ought to be read backwards, van
Lookeren. But true or false, it mattered very little. In these days,
a man can earn respect by his ability and his honesty; and where these
are present, he will be highly valued in the world--in the world,
that is to say, of people whose esteem is worth having. His mother
was supposed to be in very easy circumstances and to enjoy a very
sufficient income. At all events, the young man's studies had always
been amply provided for, and his allowance at Leyden had been liberal
enough to enable him to take part in all the amusements in which his
fellow students used to indulge. But when, towards the end of the
young man's time at college, Mrs. van Nerekool died somewhat suddenly,
it appeared that in reality her means were most slender; and that she
had indeed realised all the property she possessed and denied herself
everything in order to be able to defray the expenses of her son's
education. Seeing this, the trustee who undertook the settlement of
Mrs. van Nerekool's affairs, strongly advised the young man to try
and get appointed to the judicial staff in Dutch India. This advice
young van Nerekool took. The short time which he had yet to spend at
the University he employed in the closest application to his studies,
and after having passed a brilliant examination, he was appointed to
a place in India and put under the orders of the Governor General.

