When he got out to Batavia, they kept him for a year in the capital to
help the members of the high court of Justice to get through arrears
of work which had accumulated. This year was by no means time lost;
for young van Nerekool thus got a much clearer insight in all legal
matters which concerned the natives of the island than he could
otherwise have done, seeing that the revision of all sentences passed
by the courts in Java and Madura had to go through his hands.

Shortly after, he was appointed member of the Council at Santjoemeh,
which appointment gave him further opportunity of gaining useful
information. At Santjoemeh, the young man had the good fortune to
find in Mr. Zuidhoorn, the president of the Council, a thoroughly
worthy and honest man, who proved himself a trustworthy guide,
and who, fully appreciating the abilities and sterling qualities
of his young colleague, took every opportunity of developing them
in the right direction. In Mr. Zuidhoorn he had before him a living
example of strict integrity and of that impartiality and freedom from
prejudice which it is not always easy to practise in the service of
dame Justitia.

At Santjoemeh van Nerekool made the acquaintance of two men, one
of whom was about his own age and the other four or five years his
junior. The names of these gentlemen were William Verstork and Edward
van Rheijn. Both were in the government service in the Residence
of Santjoemeh; but Verstork was obliged to live at Banjoe Pahit,
which was the chief dessa of the division of that name to which
Kaligaweh also belonged, and van Rheijn was serving his probation in
the capital and in the office of the Resident. They were both fine
honest fellows quite unspoiled by Indian intrigue and corruption and
who held every evasion of the truth in abhorrence. In the main point
therefore their dispositions harmonised admirably with the frank
nature of Charles van Nerekool, yet were their characters somewhat
different from his. Mr. Verstork was, probably in consequence of
his longer stay in India and his greater experience, of a much more
pliable disposition than his friend; and though himself incapable
of anything mean or underhand, yet to a certain extent, he was
inclined to give way to his superiors and to wink at, or close his
eyes to, transactions of theirs which would not bear the strictest
scrutiny. This he was compelled to do, he said, in order not to
spoil his career. This pliability of character frequently used to
involve him in warm disputes with his two friends, in which, however,
he would not try to justify himself, but used to palliate his conduct
by appealing to the exceptional circumstances in which he was placed
and which were indeed of sufficiently trying a nature to give him a
claim to indulgence. He also had, at an early age, lost his father;
but less fortunate than van Nerekool, he was left as the eldest son
of a large and needy family; and though his mother had heroically
striven to provide for the wants of herself and children, yet her
earnings were not by any means sufficient even partially to attain
that object. Moreover at the time of old Mr. Verstork's death two of
William's younger brothers were receiving their education in Europe,
and the studies of these young people could not be interrupted without
altogether marring their prospects of future success. Thus it came to
pass that Controller Verstork had a very heavy burden of care resting
upon him, since the future of that family, of which he was in reality
the bread-winner, depended entirely on the career he might make. If,
therefore, he could now and then be accused of lukewarmness, or if
for the shortcomings of others he was too ready to find extenuating
circumstances or excuses, the difficult position in which he was placed
ought to be fairly considered. As far as he himself was concerned
he always was in word and deed scrupulously just and honest, and the
future will show that, in cases of emergency, he could play his part
with manliness and vigour.

