Edward van Rheijn, the probationary-controller, was not of so yielding
a nature, lukewarmness was not one of his faults. He was, indeed, as
yet too young to have acquired Verstork's circumspection and prudence;
but in the office of Mr. van Gulpendam, under whose immediate orders
he had been placed, he was in a terrible school and he had every
opportunity to become, according to the latter's favourite expression,
"a thoroughly useful and efficient Indian functionary."

These three men, then, were friends in every sense of the word, and
they never neglected a single opportunity of enjoying each other's
society. Charles and Edward had, of course, constant chances of meeting
since they both lived at Santjoemeh. They might, indeed be called
inseparables. It was not so, however, with Verstork, whose station,
the dessa Banjoe Pahit was quite twelve miles from the Residence; and
for whom, therefore, there could be no question of daily intercourse
with his two friends. Every Saturday afternoon when his work was over
and he had closed his office, he used to jump on his horse and ride
off at full speed to Santjoemeh where he was wont to lodge with one of
his friends. The Saturday evening he used to spend at the "Harmonie"
and listen to the excellent music of the militia band. On Sunday
he was accustomed to pay some visits, and, of course, to call upon
his chief officer, the Resident, and on Monday morning he was off
again before daylight so as to be able to take his bath and have his
breakfast and to be in his office punctually at nine o'clock. The two
inseparables generally accompanied him wherever they could, but the
Sunday evenings were specially devoted to friendly intercourse and
conversation. These they invariably used to spend together either at
van Nerekool's house or at van Rheijn's.

On one of these occasions, Charles had told his friends how that,
on one of his visits to the van Gulpendams he had been introduced
to the Resident's daughter Anna, how he had cultivated that young
lady's acquaintance whenever he had met her at the "Harmonie," at
evening parties, or at the Residence itself; and he further confessed
that Miss Anna van Gulpendam appeared to him the most amiable and
accomplished girl he had ever in his life had the pleasure of meeting.

