"Indeed," he had continued to say, "I do not exactly know what my
sentiments are. Is it a mere friendly feeling towards a pretty and
accomplished child, or is it perhaps love which is beginning to
nestle in my heart? I am so utterly inexperienced in such matters
that I cannot tell; all I know is that I am never so happy as when
I am in her company."

"And you manage to be so pretty frequently?" said van Rheijn with a
malicious smile. "For some time," he continued to Verstork, "friend
Charles has been away from home almost constantly. I really see very
little of him, he is out almost every evening, and then you are
sure to find him wherever Miss Anna and her parents happen to be,
or else at the Residence whether it happens to be a reception night
or not. You know I am half beginning to suspect him of taking a hand
at the Residential card-table. I have several times strolled round
the house trying to find out something; but the place is so closely
hedged in by flowers and shrubs, that my curiosity has never once
been rewarded and I have not been able to get at the secret at all."

William Verstork shook his head doubtfully at this communication,
"Is there any truth in all that?" he asked, as he steadfastly kept
his eye on van Nerekool.

"Oh yes," said the latter without the least hesitation, "but yet--"

"It is a very sad thing," said Verstork, interrupting him.

"A sad thing?" asked Charles, somewhat hastily, "what do you mean? you
won't allow me to finish what I have to say."

"Very well," said Verstork, "say on."

Van Nerekool then went on to tell him how very powerfully he had
felt himself attracted to the young girl; but that hitherto he had
not allowed a single word to betray his feelings. What had passed
between them was mere conversation, in which he had indeed discovered
how fresh and ingenuous the young girl was; but which had never gone
further than the merest every-day talk, and had entirely been confined
to little compliments, and to those harmless encounters of wit in
which young people who are fairly gifted, and are not particularly
anxious to hide their light under a bushel, are wont to indulge. He
was absolutely certain that Anna was wholly unconscious of what was
passing in his bosom. But he continued to tell his friends, that on a
certain evening, it was getting rather late, a Javanese servant had
brought him a note in which dear little Anna had begged him to come
at once and see her at the Residence.

