"Of the innocence of the Javanese, I suppose!" said van Rheijn,
somewhat playfully.

"No, not so," said van Nerekool, "but of the goodness of her heart,
of the true nobility of her soul and of the honesty and purity of
her character. And--my dear old friends, I must confess it, I am now
entirely under her spell."

"It is a very sad thing," said Verstork most seriously.

"But what the deuce do you mean--'by your very sad thing?'" cried
Charles, somewhat out of patience.

"Your affection for her, my dearest friend," said the other; "you
are laying up for yourself a very sad future."

"But how so?" cried Charles.

"My dear friend," said Verstork, "I ask you to give me a week to
answer that question."

"Why," cried van Nerekool, "you talk as if you had to pronounce a
sentence. Come, there's a good fellow, out with it at once."

"Next Saturday," said Verstork, "I intend to come again to Santjoemeh
and, take my word for it, then I will give you an answer."

Whatever efforts van Nerekool might make, he could make nothing more
out of the mysterious controller, and he had to rest content with
the promise of a full explanation on the next Saturday.








CHAPTER X.

UNE INVITATION À LA CHASSE ET UNE INVITATION À LA VALSE.


William Verstork was destined to keep his appointment with his friends;
but it was not at all in the way he intended. When he promised to meet
them he thought that he would, as usual, ride over to Santjoemeh on
the Saturday afternoon and stay until Monday morning. It was, however,
not to be so. On Thursday morning Charles van Nerekool and Edward
van Rheijn received a letter inviting them to go to Banjoe Pahit.

"That will be," wrote Verstork to his two friends, "a complete change
of parts. Hitherto I have been your guest, but now I insist upon
appearing in the character of host. Of host!--surely my pen must be
playing tricks with me. Yes, indeed, for in order to play the host,
one must be able to show hospitality--no, no--hospitality is not the
right word; but in order to play the host one must be able to provide
for one's friends; and though I know well enough that you would not
at all object to put up with my poor controller's lodging and with
my still more humble dish of rice--yet I do not intend to offer you
such meagre fare. Where I shall stow you away I really don't know,
nor can I tell where you will find your entertainment. There's a fine
invitation! I hear you exclaim. Yet, my dear friends, I feel quite
certain that you will accept it. Just hear what I have to say. For
some time past the maize fields of the inhabitants of my division,
have been ravaged by wild boars, these have, in fact, of late become
a real plague; and the dessa Kaligaweh is the principal scene of their
nightly depredations. The main body of these formidable poachers finds,
I am told, a refuge in the wild bush which surrounds the Djoerang
(ravine) Pringapoes. This djoerang is a wild mountain cleft, and is
situated very nearly in the centre of my division; the two dessas
Banjoe Pahit and Kaligaweh, which are about five miles apart, lie on
the outskirts of it; the one in the hilly country and the other in the
lower grounds sloping down to the sea-shore. I have made up my mind to
clear my district, as far as I can, of these mischievous creatures,
and, for that purpose, I intend next Saturday and Sunday to hold a
battue. I cannot possibly take any other days for it, as I cannot, at
any other time, be away from my office. You see, therefore, my dear
friends, that my letter to you is 'Une invitation à la chasse,' and
that kind of thing, I know, you will not refuse. On Saturday morning
I will send you a couple of first-rate horses which the wedono has
offered me for the use of such of my friends as may like to join in
the sport. I suppose that you will, both of you, be able to knock off
work at about two o'clock; you will then want an hour to have a bath
and to get your shooting-coats on. Pray don't forget a pair of tall
gaiters, which in our rough country and among our thorny bushes, you
will find absolutely necessary. So that, say at three o'clock, you
can be in the saddle. If you will only give your horses their heads
I know they will easily carry you six miles an hour, so that at about
five o'clock you will be at my house. That is agreed upon, is it not?"

