"Certainly, by all means," cried Charles and Edward both together,
as if they wished to convey their acceptance of his invitation to
the writer at Banjoe Pahit.

Said van Nerekool: "I must go and have a look at my gun, and I should
think it would be well to take a couple of revolvers."

"Of course," said van Rheijn, "William says so in his letter. Just
hear what he goes on to say. 'Look well to your firearms, and see
that they are in good order, for I can tell you that these pigs, when
they are roused from their lair, are not by any means contemptible
foes. You must, beside your guns, bring revolvers or, at least,
a good hunting-knife, one you can fix on the end of your rifle,
as a sword-bayonet.'"

"The devil we must!" said van Nerekool, "where in the world must I get
all these things from? I shall have to try and borrow them somewhere
I suppose. I have got a pretty good shot-gun of my own, but I can't
fix a bayonet to it. I don't think it is much use except for shooting
rice-birds, or sparrows. I must somehow manage to get hold of a rifle."

"Well," said van Rheijn, "the Regent of Santjoemeh, Radhen Mas
Toemenggoeng Pringgoe Kesoemo has, I know, a splendid repeating rifle
and a yatagan, and the Vice Regent has a pair of excellent Le Faucheux
central-fire revolvers. I have no doubt they will gladly lend them
to you."

"Then the best thing for me to do is to go and pay a visit at the
Regent's house," said van Nerekool.

"There is no need whatever to do that," said van Rheijn. "There is to
be a grand reception and ball at the Residence to-night. On such an
occasion those native grandees are not at all likely to be absent. You
will be there, I presume?" he continued, with a very meaning smile.

"Certainly," cried van Nerekool, with much warmth, "do you think
I would--?"

"Lose an opportunity of a dance with pretty Miss Anna?" asked van
Rheijn, finishing the sentence for him. "Well, you can at the same
time ask for the loan of the weapons, that will save you a tedious
call upon those Javanese worthies, But--"

