"Well, but--what?" asked van Nerekool, "what do you mean?"

"Do you know how to handle a rifle?"

"Oh, you need not trouble yourself about that," replied van Nerekool,
"I was always practising shooting at Leyden, and they used to consider
me a very good shot, too."

That evening the Residence at Santjoemeh was most brilliantly
illuminated. In the spacious outer gallery, in the inner gallery,
in the pandoppo, in the side-rooms, in fact on all sides, rich
chandeliers were glittering in the stately mansion. The innumerable
jets of gas surrounded by globes of ground glass cast a bright,
yet pleasantly softened light over the handsome apartments, and
even over such parts of the garden as immediately surrounded the
house. But there, amidst the shrubs and flowers, the gaslight had
to compete with the brightly shining moon, a competition in which
man's invention could not hope to gain the advantage. The Queen of
Night was casting over everything her placid white light; houses,
roads, grassy lawns, shrubs and flowers lay bathed in her radiance;
and wherever her beams glided through the branches they shed a dim,
uncertain twilight, which was gentle as a caress, and mysterious
as the vision of a dream. The glare of the gas, on the other hand,
surrounded the building as with a reddish circle, in which, it is true,
everything was brilliantly lighted, but in which every object seemed
touched, as it were, with an unclean finger, when compared with the
lily white hue of the natural illumination outside. This reddish circle
grew fainter and fainter as it spread farther from its centre. For some
little distance the gaslight seemed to soil the absolute purity of the
moonbeams; but gradually their lily-white prevailed, and calmly rested
upon the landscape beyond. In front of the house there was a splendid
avenue of Kanarie trees which led from the domain to Santjoemeh. At
that hour of night, when seen from the front gallery, the gas-jets,
by which the avenue was partially lighted, looked in the moonlight
which fell through the tufted trees, like so many big fire-flies,
and, in the soft breeze which barely moved the foliage, they threw
on the well-kept gravel path, the most fantastic shapes which seemed
to run after each other in perpetual chase.

