In the far distance more fire-flies were seen, red, green, blue,
yellow, all the colours of the rainbow, in fact. These were the
carriage-lamps of those who were coming to attend the reception
and ball, and who thus, by different coloured lamps, gave notice of
their approach.

The front gallery was as yet empty, only the daughter of the house
stood for a few moments at the balustrade looking down the whole
length of the avenue.

Said she to herself: "Yon red light which glitters so brightly is
the carriage of the assistant-resident of police, he always has the
right of precedence. And that blue one is Mr. Zuidhoorn's, and that
violet--Ah, there right away in the distance, that green--I must
be off--the foremost carriage is almost in the grounds--However,
I am glad van Nerekool is coming--It would never do for him to see
me looking out." She turned and joined her parents, who, having
been told by the Chief Constable that the guests were approaching,
had entered the inner gallery. Anna took her place by the side
of her mother ready to receive and to return the greetings of the
visitors. Mr. van Gulpendam, however, first went to have a look in
the front gallery. He was dressed very simply in black evening coat
without any official badge or distinction whatever, though the pajoeng
stand figured conspicuously enough at the end of the gallery. He
walked to the balustrade and cast a look outside. Down below at the
foot of the broad flight of steps which on both sides gave access to
the front gallery, a couple of sentinels were marching up and down
with shouldered arms. They regulated their walk, so that they met in
front of the middle of the gallery, then, in turning round they took
care that the tips of their bayonets should just clash together, a
sound which evidently was as sweet as heavenly music in the Resident's
ears. At all events he looked down with much complacency upon the two
sentinels and thrust forward his chest as one who would say: "Look,
that is the homage due to my exalted rank and transcendent merit."

