Close by the main building, but a little on one side of it, a
small temporary pavilion had been erected, and upon it also the
Resident bestowed a look. The bandsmen of the militia at Santjoemeh,
dressed in full uniform, had just arrived, and were engaged there in
arranging their desks and opening their music-books and making other
preparations. A condescending nod to the bandmaster showed that Mr. van
Gulpendam was in an excellent humour. Thereupon he turned and joined
his wife and daughter.

"Those fellows," said he, "don't seem to drive very fast, however,
they are heaving in sight now."

Fair Laurentia, proud as any queen, had taken up her position in the
middle of the inner gallery, in front of a sofa which had been placed
there on purpose before a valuable Japanese screen. She held in one
hand a splendid bouquet of the rarest flowers, while from the wrist of
the other dangled her curiously carved ivory fan, a weapon which the
lady knew how to handle most becomingly. She was clad sumptuously in
a black satin dress, which set off wonderfully well the perfection of
her ample form. The corsage, reduced to the very limits modesty would
allow, that is to say that it was sleeveless and cut down very deep
in the back and very low in front, gave an ample view of her finely
formed and well rounded arms, of her splendid shoulders which looked
as if carved out of alabaster, and of a bosom which might have moved
Venus Kallipyga to envy. One line lower, and that corsage would not
have been able to contain the charms which it had to confine within
almost too narrow compass. An exceedingly elaborate coiffure sustained
the dark-brown locks of her stately head by means of a magnificent
diadem glowing with precious stones, while a number of coquettish
little curls straying over her clear white forehead, imparted to the
sparkling dark eyes of the beautiful woman an uncommonly seductive
fire. Round her neck she wore the blood-coral necklace with diamond
clasps which M`Bok Kârijâh had handed to her, and on her wrists
glittered the two serpent bracelets of old gold with diamond eyes
which she had so greatly admired on the nonna of the Chinese major, and
which had wrung from Lim Ho an imprecation accompanied by the words,
"Betoel, njonja mahal!"

