By her side stood her daughter Anna, who by the absolute simplicity
of her attire, formed the strangest possible contrast with her
mother. However much Laurentia had tried, nothing would induce Anna to
appear in a low-necked dress. Her corsage, which like the dress was of
rose-coloured silk, was modestly closed around the neck, yet did not
prevent the imagination from picturing to itself the treasures which it
modelled with perfect exactness. For jewellery of any kind, the pretty
girl had a positive distaste. One simple Malmaison rose glowed in her
dark glossy hair, which was dressed as plainly as possible, but the
wealth of which she was not able to conceal. On her bosom a little bud
of tea-rose attracted attention to its delicately shaded yellow tints,
while it dispersed thoughts which, at that modestly veiled yet finely
modelled bust, might perhaps be tempted to take too wild a flight.

"How absurd of you it is, Anna," said Mrs. van Gulpendam, crossly
enough, as she surveyed her daughter from head to foot with a sarcastic
smile, "to appear at an evening party so shabbily dressed as that! Why,
your late governess used to make a better figure. People would take
her for the daughter of the house, and you for the governess."

In a certain sense the worldly woman was right enough. The late
governess she alluded to was a frivolous Parisienne, who had in every
way encouraged Mrs. van Gulpendam in her tastes, and had even urged
her on to greater extravagance. Thus she had got into the good graces
of the mistress of the house, and--evil tongues used to whisper--she
stood very high in favour with the Resident also. But be this true
or false, this much is certain that Mademoiselle Hélène Fouillée had
no more succeeded in corrupting the mind of the young girl entrusted
to her care, than in spoiling her naturally excellent taste. It was
not Anna's intention to reply to her mother's ill natured remark,
even had she had time to do so. At that moment was heard the sound
of feet mounting the broad steps which led to the front gallery, and
in a few seconds, in came a number of young gentlemen of different
races, some with white cheeks, some with brown, some with fair hair,
and some with black locks heavily oiled and stiff as pipe stems,
all in correct evening dress, with the starchiest collars, and with
opera-hats under their arms. These were, as Mr. van Gulpendam used to
style them, the ordinary seamen of the feast, who had to keep up the
liveliness of the mess; and who were expected to stand always ready by
the signal halliards. With this peculiar figurative language he meant
to convey that these young gentlemen were expected to hold themselves
in readiness for any emergency. Most of them were clerks and writers
in the Resident's office, who were admitted on these high occasions
on condition that they were always prepared to dance with any lady
who might happen to be in want of a partner.

