Very humbly and very modestly they approached to pay their respectful
compliments to the family. In return for this homage they obtained a
condescending shake of the hand from their chief, a pleasant little
smile and nod from his pretty daughter, while mamma, with her own
fair fingers, fastened a rosebud in their buttonholes, thus dubbing
them the stewards of the evening's entertainment.

"And now, young people," said Laurentia, with her most fascinating
smile, "you must dance merrily to-night."

"Aye, aye," grumbled van Gulpendam, "a good stiff breeze mind--no
doldrums, do you hear!"

All heads were submissively bent under this windy exhortation, when
suddenly Laurentia cried:

"Quick, there come our guests!"

As a black cloud the young men rushed from the room, as the foremost
carriages drove up. Presently, three of them returned to the inner
gallery, escorting the wife of the assistant resident of police and
her two daughters, a pair of good-looking twins of about twenty.

"Well, how very kind of you, Mrs. Meidema," cried Laurentia, in her
most pleasant tones, as she grasped the hand of the lady who had just
arrived and drew her close to give her a kiss on the forehead. Each
of the two young girls also obtained this high distinction.

"It is really kind of you to have come," continued the garrulous
hostess. "I hardly dared to hope that we should have the pleasure of
seeing you here to-night. Mrs. Zuidhoorn was this morning telling me
that one of your children is ill."

"Oh no, I am glad to say," replied Mrs. Meidema, "it is not so bad
as that, only slightly indisposed, it is nothing but a slight cold."

The Assistant Resident who followed his ladies, made his bow to the
mistress of the house, and then shook hands with his chief. As the
young ladies were exchanging greetings, one of the sisters whispered
to Anna van Gulpendam, "I have something to tell you presently, Anna."

"Secrets, Matilda?" asked she.

A slight nod was the answer, in fact no other reply was possible;
for after the family Meidema a constant stream of visitors came up
and crowded around the host and hostess to pay them their respects.

