Then appeared the President of the Court, and the members of the
judicature, the officials of the Home Department, the officers of the
garrison, the leading commercial men and principal manufacturers--all
these accompanied by the ladies of their families, whenever these
were old enough to join in the dancing. There further appeared the
Regent of Santjoemeh Radhen Mas Toemenggoeng Pringgoe Kesoemo and the
Vice-regent Radhen Pandjie Merto Winoto and the chief djaksa (public
prosecutor) Mas Djogo Dirdjo and many other Javanese grandees and all
these with their principal wives. There appeared also the major of the
Chinese Tang Ing Gwan and captains, Lim Liong Hie and Tjaa Kwat Kong
and several lieutenants of that nation. There also Lim Yang Bing the
opium farmer at Santjoemeh and his son Lim Ho put in an appearance. All
these people thronged around the three members of the Residential
family as they stood by the above mentioned sofa. They all smiled and
nodded, and bowed, and shook hands, and made protestations--indeed,
at the Hague you could not have seen it done better. If all these
utterances which spoke of attachment and devotion, were but in sober
reality the outcome of hearty good will--why, then Santjoemeh would
have been an earthly Paradise.

Meanwhile, the militia-band had been playing the overture of La Dame
Blanche, to which music, however, not a single soul had paid the
slightest attention.

When the overture was ended, and flattery, and incense, and
compliments, had, at length, been exhausted, the Resident made
a signal, which was forthwith repeated by one of the ministering
spirits in the front-gallery. Straightway were heard the tones of a
formal Polonaise, whereupon the assembled guests pairing off began to
move about in the spacious inner and outer galleries. It was a stately
procession, reminding one very much of a march-past, during which the
keen eyes of the ladies could sharply criticise each other's toilettes.

The Resident led the procession with the Commandant's wife on his
arm, immediately behind them, came fair Laurentia on the arm of that
commanding officer, while the chief of the medical staff followed
with Anna, This was a thorn in van Nerekool's side; but when, after
the Polonaise, were heard the exhilarating strains of "L'invitation
à la valse," the old doctor had led Anna to a seat, youth asserted
its rights, and soon Anna and Charles were gliding together in the
inner gallery. It was a sight, to see the two young people so happy,
with pleasure beaming from their eyes.

