"You are tired! shall I take you to your seat?"

"Oh no," said she in a scarcely audible whisper, "I am not at all
tired. Do let us go on dancing."

However inexperienced in such matters van Nerekool might be, those
words were plain enough. "With the greatest pleasure, dear Anna,"
he cried, as he led his partner on amid the maze of dancers.

"You give me leave then to call you dear--dearest Anna?"

One eloquent look from the fair girl was the answer.

"Oh then," continued he passionately, "let me tell you how dear you
are to me, how dearly, how fondly I love you."

Her well-gloved hand moved convulsively on his shoulder.

"Yes, darling Anna," he continued in a lower tone, but more eagerly
than before--"I love you as never man can have loved before,--I
love you with all my heart and with all my soul, and the proudest
and happiest moment of my life will be that in which I shall be able
to call you mine--my own! Tell me, dearest Anna, tell me, may I hope
for some return of my love?"

The girl's eye fell before his burning glance, but this was a turning
point in her life, and when it was a question of such vital importance
to both, she was much too frank and too honest to try and hide her
feelings under a cloak of false modesty. Very softly therefore; but in
a voice which to Charles was distinctly audible, she murmured, "Yes."

For a few moments he was silent, and seemed lost in thought Gently they
glided on together to the time of that delightful music, and, though
in the midst of a throng of dancers, wholly engrossed in each other,
they felt as lonely as on some island washed by the storm-tossed waves.

But his arm now more firmly clasped her waist, for a single instant
it seemed as if he would have caught her up to his breast and held
her there, as if to take possession of his treasure.

"You make me too happy," said he at length, "You make me too happy
with that little word, which to me is full of the deepest meaning. Now
will you allow me to see your parents to-morrow and lay before them
my formal request for your hand?"

