At these words the girl's countenance fell, she replied however:

"Most certainly I will allow you, Mr. van Ne----"

"My name is Charles, dearest Anna," whispered the young man.

"Certainly, Charles, I will allow you--but it would not be right to
try and conceal from you the fact that my father is prejudiced against
you. My father does not like you at all, I have gathered that from
many an unguarded expression that has fallen from him."

"Oh, yes," he replied, "I know that well. I also have noticed his
dislike. But what objection can he have to me?"

"Well," said Anna, "to tell you the truth, I do not think he knows
that himself--some unaccountable antipathy, I suppose. You know he
calls you a dreamer, an enthusiast, an unpractical person, in fact,
who will never make much way in the world."

"And my Anna," asked the young man, "does she also look upon me as
a dreamer and an enthusiast?"

The fair girl looked up to him with a merry smile.

"Yes," continued van Nerekool, "I am an enthusiast--that is quite
true. I am devoted to all that is good and all that is beautiful. I am
an enthusiast where my darling is concerned--that is true enough. But
is it a fact that I am an unpractical fellow, and one who will never
make his way in the world? Methinks that just now, when I am trying
to win the dearest girl in the world, I am proving myself to be most
thoroughly practical, inasmuch as I am striving to secure for myself
the greatest imaginable happiness, and I think that, far from dreaming,
I am giving proof of being very properly and very wide awake. Don't
you think so, dearest?"

Another soft pressure on that poor shoulder which already had had so
much to bear was her answer.

"And do you think, dearest Anna," he continued, "that that antipathy
is strong enough to make your father so hostile to me that he will
refuse his consent to a union on which he knows that your happiness
as well as mine depends?"

"I do not say so, Charles," was her reply. "But you must make up your
mind to difficulties and obstacles of all kinds."

