"Very good," said he, "we shall have to fight against them;
difficulties are made to be removed and obstacles to be overcome. Anna,
my darling, I count upon your love and your constancy; you may safely
count on mine. Nothing--you hear me?--nothing in the world will in
the slightest degree affect my love to you. The very obstacles you
speak of will only serve to enhance the joy of our union."

The music ceased, and with it ceased the dance. Charles released his
partner's waist and offered her his arm.

"Let us walk about for a few minutes," said he; "to-morrow I shall
call upon your parents. I will request them to see me some time in
the morning. That is a settled question, is it not?"

She nodded with her calm, sweet smile.

After having made a couple of turns around the inner gallery the
two lovers found themselves at one of the doors which opened upon
the pandoppo, where the illumination was equally bright. Several
couples--groups of young girls--also were passing through the pandoppo
to get to the garden of the Residence, there to enjoy for a while
the freshness and coolness of the pleasant night. Anna and Charles
followed the others somewhat mechanically; and soon found themselves
among the ornamental shrubberies and bushes which the tropical sun
brings forth in such abundance. Between these the pathways, laid down
in the style of an English park, meandered gracefully and fantastically
as the inspiration of some skilful artist.

"I fancy I saw Matilda Meidema and a couple of my friends yonder just
now," said Anna, "down there in the Salak-lane. She has something to
tell me. I shall be with you again directly."

Was it natural modesty? Was it a kind of dread of being alone for
the first time with him whom she loved, and to whom she had just
now spoken her faithful and trustful "yes?" Was it perhaps womanly
curiosity which impelled her to go and hear what secret her friend
had to communicate, and a burning anxiety also to pour into her ear
the great secret of her own happiness? Perhaps so. At all events, she
was about to speed away, but van Nerekool prevented her with gentle
violence as he pressed to his heart the hand which lay on his arm.

