"There will be time enough presently, dearest love," murmured he in
a whisper, as if he feared some one in the garden might catch up his
words; "there will be time enough presently to hear what Matilda has
to tell you. This hour is mine."








CHAPTER XI.

A GARDEN SCENE.


Meanwhile, the moon had risen high in the heavens. Through the lofty
tree-tops, her beams formed the most curiously shaped and fantastic
silhouettes, which, under the influence of the cool night-breeze,
seemed to drive one another up and down in endless chase along
the bright yellow paths, and the velvety lawns. Here and there, the
moonlight fell through groups of Tjemara trees, which, with their long
needle-like foliage, greatly resemble our larches, and thus had, as
it were, to pass through a network of the finest lace. Nothing could
be more weird, and, to a poetic eye, more pleasing, than these strange
patches of sifted light, which cast no shadows, and offered so great a
contrast to the calm white radiance around, that they looked like the
mysterious rings in which elves and fairies hold their nightly revels.

This night, however, the otherwise so quiet garden offered a most
animated spectacle. On all sides, in the avenues, under the trees, on
the lawns, were scattered about merry groups of young men and girls,
and many more sedate parties also of older people, all thoroughly
enjoying the fresh balmy air, and, after the heat and glare of the
crowded ball-rooms, finding relief in the cool breeze and pleasant
moonlight.

After the waltz was over, the band had struck up a fantasia on airs
from La Traviata. As the picolo and the cornet began the well-known
duet of the first act in which Alfred and Violetta declare their
mutual love, and where the music so eloquently interprets the words:


"Un jour l'âme ravie,
Je vous vis si jolie,
Que je vous crus sortie
Du céleste séjour.
Etait-ce donc un ange, une femme,
Qui venait d'embraser mon âme?
Las! je ne sais encor ... mais depuis ce beau jour,
Je sais que j'aime d'un pur amour."

