
Van Nerekool's arm stole round the waist of his dear Anna, as he led
her into a thick grove of Pandan, under whose heavy and broad foliage
they might hope, for a few moments, to escape from the observation
of those around them.

"Now, my own dearest Anna," said he, "now that we are alone, let
me repeat the words which, yonder in the midst of all those people,
and with all those eyes fixed upon us, I could but whisper."

The young girl hung trembling all over on her lover's arm.

"Anna, my darling, I love you; I love you more dearly than my words can
express, more dearly than my mother, than my sister, more dearly than
myself. As I am by your side, I can dream of nothing but happiness,
to breathe the same air that you breathe is bliss indeed. O darling
Anna, let me tell you again and again how dearly, how faithfully,
I love you!"

The strong man clasped the girl to his breast, and she hid her head
on his shoulder.

"Tell me, Anna," he continued, passionately, "tell me, do you feel
some such love for me? Do you love me, dearest? I know I have already
had your answer, but repeat that word once again now that we are here
alone, now that we are here far from the noise of the world, repeat
that little word now as we are standing under the eye of God himself."

He drew the young girl still more closely to him, as he bowed his head
down to her lips to listen. She closed her eyes, and then, blending
with the wondrous soughing of the breeze in the Tjemara trees, softly
and melodiously the magic syllable fell from her lips.

He all but uttered a cry of joy, and, bending his head still deeper
down towards her, he whispered in trembling accents, "Dearest one,
now let me set the seal to my vows of true and faithful love;" and,
before Anna had time to utter a word, their lips met, and then, with
one long, ardent kiss, they closed the band which, for this transitory
world, was to hold their hearts and lives inseparably united.

Thus for a few moments they stood in fond embrace, gazing at
one another with joy ineffable, while high above them the broad
Pandan-leaves were gently waving and sheltering them under their
friendly shade, and the wind sighing to the Tjemaras wafted to them
from yonder distance the sweet strains of melody which again and
again seemed to say:

