
"... Mais depuis ce beau jour,
Je sais que j'aime d'un pur amour."


Those brief moments of rapture were indeed, for the happy pair of
lovers, an ever-memorable page in the book of their life; the fairest
page, no doubt, and the happiest. Soon, too soon, they were to be
roughly shaken out of their blissful dream.

"Anna!" cried a loud voice, "Matilda Meidema is looking for you
everywhere. Where can you have got to, my child?"

It was the voice of Anna's mother Laurentia, which suddenly startled
our lovers out of their ecstasy. At a single glance the sharp-sighted
woman had taken in the whole scene; but she betrayed no surprise,
and, in the most winning manner, continued: "I left Matilda, only
a moment ago, by yonder bed of roses--if you will follow this path,
you can't help meeting her."

And, as her daughter stood irresolute:

"Oh," said she, "you need not be anxious; Mr. van Nerekool will be
kind enough to offer me his arm, so you see you will not leave him
sorrowing and utterly forsaken. Make haste."

These words uttered in the most friendly tone, yet so full of sarcasm,
dismayed the young girl utterly, and caused her to hurry away with
sad forebodings.

"And now, Mr. van Nerekool," said Mrs. van Gulpendam, somewhat loftily,
to the young man. "Now, it is our turn, will you kindly offer me
your arm?"

Without a word, and with a courtly bow, van Nerekool complied; but
he felt sick at heart, as though he had committed some crime.

"Come," said she, "we will walk up this avenue of Tjemaras, it is
lighter here and not so mysteriously dark as in that horrid Pandan
grove. True, I don't suppose you will have to tell me such pretty
tales as you were just now whispering to Anna, Fie, Mr. van Nerekool,
that was hardly a loyal action on your part, I must say--"

Charles cast his eye on the woman who was leaning on his arm, and
who, so calmly and with so musical a voice, signified her maternal
disapprobation. They had come forth from the Pandan grove, so that the
moonlight, shining full upon the perfect form of her snowy bosom, which
a thin tulle handkerchief only nominally protected from the night air,
imparted to her person an indescribably fascinating appearance. As
though dazzled at the sight, the young man, for a single instant,
closed his eyes; and when he opened them again, he found the deep,
dark gaze of the beautiful woman fixed full upon him. She seemed to
divine the impression which the view of her charms had, for a passing
moment, made upon the youthful and susceptible man. Her look seemed
to interrogate, and, at the same time, was encouraging.

