"Madam," said Charles at length with a deep breath, as if he were
putting from him an unwelcome thought; "Madam, you were doubtless
surprised to find me walking with Miss Anna in this somewhat lonely
part of the garden--"

"Walking with her, yes,--and kissing her," said fair Laurentia,
completing the sentence.

"Well, yes," continued Charles, "and kissing her; but should you
perhaps think that we had purposely selected this spot, then--"

"Well, what then?" asked she, with a sly smile.

"Then you would be misjudging Miss Anna and myself."

"I considered," retorted Laurentia, somewhat sarcastically, "that
the spot was an admirable one--well-chosen for kissing."

"Yet it was the merest chance that brought us to it. Believe me,
before that moment,--or to speak more correctly,--before this evening,
not a word of love had ever passed between us."

"Oh, Mr. van Nerekool!" exclaimed Laurentia, with a mocking smile,
"that is quite incredible! Do you expect me to believe that two
young people of different sexes, should be kissing each other in an
out-of-the-way corner, if there had not previously been some words
of affection,--of love,--spoken between them--without, in fact,
any question of passion on either side?"

"And yet, madam, believe me, it is the perfect truth. I never tell
a lie," broke in Charles, with considerable vehemence.

"Aye, aye," said Laurentia, "I know all about it. I once was young
myself. Oh," continued the pleasure-loving woman, her voice falling at
the remembrance of that youth from which she was so loth to part. "Oh,
when I was nineteen, I was exactly what Anna is now--I was, as she is
now, a budding beauty, I had just as fresh and youthful feelings--I
was just as child-like and playful as she is."

Van Nerekool shuddered at this comparison of the daughter with
the mother.

"I was just as kind-hearted, just as lovable as she is. Oh believe me,"
continued she, excitedly, while she allowed her hand to lean on his
arm more heavily perhaps than was needful, and gave that arm a gentle
pressure. "Believe me, one need not have a very lively imagination
to see that Anna will be precisely like me."

