For a moment she paused, as if she began to see that she was being
carried away by her subject.

"No doubt, madam," replied van Nerekool, gallantly, as he allowed his
eye to wander from the face of his fair companion to her shoulders,
to her bosom, to her feet. "No doubt, one may safely predict that Miss
Anna will, in charms and perfections, nearly come up to her mother."

"Pray, Mr. van Nerekool, no compliments," said Laurentia, with an
affected smile.

"But may I beg of you," continued he, "to let me know for what purpose
you drew the parallel? I do not quite see--"

Laurentia shook the wealth of curls which covered her neck and
descended to her shoulders. No, the simpleton whose arm she held,
did not understand her. That was plain enough. One thought of M`Bok
Kârijâh swiftly passed through her brain, and drew a sigh from her.

"Oh," she continued, while her bosom rose and fell quickly as she drew
breath more rapidly, "I merely meant to state that I was young once--"

"And you are young still," cried van Nerekool, politely.

"That a kiss has been snatched from me too," continued Laurentia,
with a smile of pleasure at the remembrance, "but that occurred in
open daylight, in the presence of my parents, and not in the darkness
of a Pandan grove."

"Now, madam," said van Nerekool, very seriously, "allow me, I pray
you, to tell you how it all happened. For about a twelvemonth I
have been visiting at your house. At first my visits were but rare,
of late they have become much more frequent. Now, you are a clever
woman and you cannot have failed to see the reason of this. I had made
the acquaintance of your daughter, and the more thoroughly I began to
appreciate her amiable and noble character, the more deeply did the
shaft which had struck me at my first visit, enter into my heart. How
shall I go on, madam--the simple truth is that soon I felt that at her
side only I could be truly happy. But;--though I ventured to hope that
Miss Anna had no aversion for me--and though I thought that I might
reckon upon your friendly aid also--yet I very soon began to notice
that I failed to gain the good-will of Mr. van Gulpendam. Indeed,
I may say, that he positively dislikes me. That feeling of dislike
he could not always repress, though he observed towards me the forms
of strict politeness; and, though I cannot complain of any purposely
inflicted slights, yet now and then his repugnance would show itself
in a manner which, to me, has been wholly unmistakable. This, in
some measure, discouraged me. Then again, I know that, as yet, my
income will not suffice to set up housekeeping on however modest a
scale. Thus, you yourself, my dear madam, must have perceived that I
left Miss Anna in utter ignorance of my affection for her. Whether
or not she may have suspected my passion, I do not dare to say;
but certainly I uttered no single word of love to her--"

