"But Mr. van Nerekool--"

"Allow me, madam, to finish my story: certainly I uttered no single
word of love to her until this evening when, in the giddy whirl of the
dance, the secret which I had so long and so faithfully kept escaped
me. I was beside myself with joy when the first declaration of my
love was not met with a refusal. And, as a loving mother, can you now
blame me because, as we were walking together a few moments later in
this garden, I was driven, by the magic power of this lovely scene,
by the solemn quiet of this enchanting spot, and by the seductive
notes of the music which could not but find an echo in my heart,
again to declare my love? Can you blame me because, as I held in
my arms the pure angel of my dreams and clasped her to my heart,
I sealed the solemn compact of our love with a kiss as pure and as
holy--I swear it--as the angels in Heaven might interchange?"

Charles van Nerekool spoke with the fire, with the enthusiasm,
of truth. His words were nothing like the commonplaces of society,
nothing like the phrases which sound like a mere sentimental lesson
learnt out of the romantic pages of Georges Sand, of Georges Ohnet or
of Hector Malot. His words were eloquent, manly; and came from a true
and loyal heart, and they made a deep impression on the fair lady
who leaned on his arm, Laurentia--always very impressible--closed
her eyes for a moment, as if dazed by the power and purity of his
love. Had Mr. van Gulpendam ever, thought she, thus declared his love
to her--had he ever spoken of her in such terms? Alas! no; he was a man
wholly absorbed in the love of money; and--and--But she--she?--was she
free from those faults which now she looked upon with such horror in
her husband? For one single moment she was forced to confess herself
guilty, for a single moment better thoughts prevailed. But this was
only for a moment. The instant after she began to feel jealous of her
daughter. Yes, jealous and angry at the thought that Anna has succeeded
in winning so pure, so proud, so manly a love--a love which she herself
had never either felt or inspired. Moreover she put no faith in so
much purity and sincerity as the words of van Nerekool evidently
conveyed. Her very nature forbade her to do so. All affection,
all love between persons of opposite sexes was, in her estimation,
the mere expression of material passion and the consequence of carnal
desire. Purity and love were, to her, mere sounds, which, if she could
understand them at all, only served as a cloak for far different
sentiments. To her they were--they could be--nothing more. Under
the influence, therefore, of such miserably grovelling views, she
answered sarcastically: "Yes, I can understand all that! Immeasurable
bliss under the Pandan bushes! Now, Mr. van Nerekool, shall I tell
you what I think of that chaste kiss and all the rest of it?--Well,
I think that they are merely fine names for something which might
be expressed in totally different language. Why! you, as a man,
you surely must know what meaning the world attributes to a kiss!"

