"Pardon me, madam," replied Charles, somewhat sadly, "I am, as yet,
very young and very inexperienced."

"Yes," said Laurentia with a mocking laugh, "I can quite perceive
that."

"Oh madam," cried the young man, "I beg you let us not waste
time in useless playing with words. Yes I am young, I repeat it,
I am inexperienced, I have but little knowledge of the sentiments
which seem to pass current in the world; feelings which appear to
be ticketed like the samples of some commercial traveller, each to
fit into their own compartment--one affection of the heart another
of the head, another of the senses. Of all this I know nothing. I
can say but one thing, I truly, and in all good faith and honesty,
love your daughter; and especially, my love for her is a pure love
in which the pursuit after pleasure has not once entered. Believe me
when I say this in all the sincerity of my heart. Such insinuations
I never expected to hear from her who is the mother of her whom I
honour and respect above all things. I love Anna with all my heart
and with all my powers, and I feel within me the glorious strength
which honourable love alone is able to impart."

These principles of the young man spoken out so forcibly and in so
manly a spirit, baffled Mrs. van Gulpendam completely. She felt at
once that it would be no use whatever to try and play any idle games
with him.

"But," said she somewhat impatiently, "what then do you want of
me?" This she asked quite forgetting that it was she who had asked van
Nerekool to give her his arm, and that it was she who had brought up
this conversation--a conversation which seemed to be turning greatly
to her discomfiture.

"I caught you," she continued, "as you were holding Anna in your arms,
in a lonely spot, and as you were pressing a kiss upon her lips. Now I
ask you, what am I to think of the vaunted purity of your love? Your
practice seems to me to be in direct contradiction with your fine
principles. I ask you again: is such conduct in any way excusable,
while the girl's parents are left in ignorance of this passion?"

