"Mrs. van Gulpendam, I have tried to explain to you how circumstances
entirely beyond my control, have led me to betray my feelings. If you
will not take my word for it, then I can only lament that you, my dear
Anna's mother, have formed so low an opinion of my character. But,
much as I do regret that, such considerations can now no longer
withhold me. I have agreed with Miss Anna, that to-morrow I will ask
your leave to call upon you in order to formally make my request
to yourself and Mr. van Gulpendam, for your daughter's hand. Now,
however, let me anticipate that to-morrow and make my petition to
you here which it was my intention to lay before you to-morrow. And,
may I add to that request, the prayer that you will kindly intercede
on my behalf, with Mr. van Gulpendam?"

As he made his petition Charles van Nerekool had stopped in his walk
and had dropped Laurentia's arm, and now he was looking up into the
eyes of Anna's mother, with the beseeching look of yearning love.

Knowing the young man's character, it cannot for a moment be supposed
that he acted with any view to theatrical effect when he stopped
exactly in the centre of one of those strange shadowy glades under
the Tjemara trees. The curious light, however, surrounded his head
as with a mysterious aureola which made the finely chiselled features
of his grave countenance and his fair curls stand out to the greatest
advantage. Fair Laurentia was an excellent judge of manly beauty; and
the ardent look which she cast upon the young man, as he stood there
in an attitude of supplication before her, would have filled Anna
with dismay had she been able to see it and been able to understand
its significance.

The momentary danger, however, fortunately passed away; for the
thoughts of the practical woman were just then distracted by the
approach of two sons of the Celestial empire, who, walking in an
avenue which ran parallel to that in which she was, made the fine
gravel crunch under their curiously curved but heavy sandals.

