These were babah Tang Ing Gwan the major of the Chinese troops at
Santjoemeh and babah Lim Yang Bing the opium farmer. They also had
come out to enjoy the fresh air, and were honestly confessing to each
other that, on the whole, they did not find much amusement in these
European entertainments. Said Lim Yang Bing with a most disgusting leer
to his companion, "It is only the bare shoulders, arms, &c., of the
European ladies and girls that reconcile me in any way to so tedious
a party. It cannot be denied that the creatures are well made. But
what on earth can the husbands and fathers of these things mean,
to come and exhibit them thus publicly; and then what shamelessness,
what want of modesty in those white women to show themselves thus,
Tjiss! Fie upon them!"

"Yes, indeed, Tjiss!" said the Chinese major, an elderly man who with
his long grey moustache drooping on to his breast, had a very martial,
indeed a venerable appearance. "Yes, Tjiss!" said he, "I would not
allow my wife or daughters to appear before me in such dress as that,
or rather in such undress!"

"Have you noticed the njonja toean Resident?" said Lim Yang
Bing. "She--"

"Hold your tongue!" whispered the major in a warning voice, "she is
standing just there talking to the young judge; what can she have to
say to him?"

Lim Yang Bing answered not a word; but a low cunning smile played upon
his lips. The intrigues of his son Lim Ho were perfectly well known
to him. He also remembered his conversation with the Resident--and
van Nerekool was a member of the judicial bench.

No! the njonja had heard nothing but the crunching of the gravel;
but the mere sight of these two Chinamen--and especially the sight of
the opium-farmer, which brought at once Lim Ho to her mind, and her
arrangements with M`Bok Kârijâh--caused the demon of money to triumph,
and put to silence all other passions in her breast.

"Mr. van Nerekool," said she in a gentle coaxing tone of voice,
"the Resident is not at all so badly disposed towards you as you
seem to think. But he is a man who has a great eye for all that
is practical.--Allow me to speak and do not interrupt me.--Our
conversation has already lasted too long. The world might, you
know--But no, you love my daughter do you not?"

