"Oh speak, madam, speak--I will in every way--"

"Mr. Zuidhoorn," quietly resumed Laurentia, "is, as you may have
heard perhaps, on the point of starting for Holland to recruit his
health--I am right, am I not?"

"Very good," she continued as Charles made a gesture of assent,
"there is a case coming before the Court which I am particularly
anxious to see satisfactorily settled."

"But, madam," interposed the lawyer, "I am a member of the judicial
council and have nothing whatever to do with the lower court."

"At my recommendation," replied Laurentia, "you will, being one of the
junior judges, be appointed President of the lower court pending the
arrival of Mr. Zuidhoorn's substitute. That will be a step for you,
will it not?"

"Certainly it will," said van Nerekool, "I pray you go on."

"And--who knows?--But to come to the point. There is a Javanese
at present in custody whose name is Ardjan, the fellow has been
smuggling opium."

Van Nerekool's heart began to throb almost audibly. Of course the
mother of his dearest Anna could but wish to help this poor Ardjan
out of his trouble, and was about to call upon him to lend her his
assistance. He therefore thought that he quite spoke her mind when
he interrupted her by saying:

"Who is accused of smuggling opium, you mean, dear madam."

"That comes to the same thing," replied Mrs. van Gulpendam somewhat
tartly.

The young lawyer looked up in surprise, he could make nothing of it.

"Ardjan," continued Laurentia, again quite calmly, "is an
arch-smuggler, he belongs to a family of smugglers. Just lately--a
day or two ago--his father was caught in the act, and offered armed
resistance to the police in the execution of their duties. Such scum
as that must be severely dealt with--do you hear?"

"Yes, madam, I hear," said van Nerekool, drily, "I know that he did
offer resistance to the authorities; but--as far as opium-smuggling
is concerned--"

"Smuggling!" cried the lady, vehemently, "is theft--is theft! you know
that well enough, Mr. van Nerekool, it is stealing from the revenue,
it is stealing from the public purse."

