"Most undoubtedly it is, madam; but what I wanted to ask is--Has this
case of smuggling been properly brought home to them?"

"Oh, certainly it has," cried Laurentia. "Ardjan is the guilty
man--there is no one else to suspect. Of course, I know well enough
that a conspiracy had been formed to cast suspicion upon Lim Ho,
the son of the great opium farmer. Now what an absurdity!--the son
of the farmer who, with his father, has the greatest interest in
stopping all smuggling transactions!--it is simply absurd. I know
also that in order further to prejudice Lim Ho, an accusation has been
trumped up against him in the upper court, in which he is charged with
having flogged Ardjan with Kamadoog leaves. But, of course, Mr. van
Nerekool, you will know how to tear to pieces that web of deceit
and perjury. You will know how to deal with that nest of smugglers,
and make short work of all these perjurers!"

"Madam," replied the young man, "you may be quite sure that, if I
have the honour of being appointed to the temporary presidency of
the lower court, I shall, to the best of my abilities, discharge my
duties with the strictest impartiality. He who is in the right shall
have justice; and he who is guilty, shall not evade the punishment he
deserves. I happen to know something about that smuggling business,
and also of the so-called resistance to the police of which Pak Ardjan
stands accused, and I think I can assure you that neither father nor
son is as culpable as he is supposed to be."

"What a downright simpleton the booby is," thought Mrs. van Gulpendam.

"Mr. van Nerekool," she whispered in his ear, "the Resident is quite
right--You are not a practical man."

"But, madam--"

"But remember, it is only if you follow my directions, that Anna will
be yours. You mind that!"

"But," cried Nerekool, in extreme perplexity, "what is it you require
me to do?"

"Ardjan and his father must both be transported," said Mrs. van
Gulpendam, most resolutely. "Where to?--that matters but little--to
Deli, to Atjeh--Yes, Atjeh, perhaps, would be the better place."

