"They will be transported," said Van Nerekool, with equal resolution,
"both of them, if they are found guilty."

"Guilty or not guilty!" exclaimed Mrs. van Gulpendam, "you will do
as I tell you!--Or else--no presidency--You will do as I tell you--or
else, depend upon it--no Anna!"

The blood flew up into the face of the upright young judge at this
intolerable dictation. His whole mind and soul rebelled against such
gross injustice. He dropped the arm of the fair temptress, and, without
reflecting, he hissed rather than spoke in the heat of his indignation.

"Madam, I love your daughter, I dearly love Anna; but to purchase
her hand at that price--the price of my own dishonour--Never, never!"

"Never?" sneered Laurentia.

"No, madam, never, never!" exclaimed van Nerekool. "Why, she herself
would be the very first to despise and reject me, could I be guilty
of such baseness and accept so odious an offer. But," continued he,
suddenly changing his tone, "surely all this is but a jest, surely
you are not in earnest!"

"I am in right--downright earnest," said Laurentia, sternly. "It is
my last word to you--it is war or peace between us--I leave it to
your own choice."

"I would not willingly make an enemy of anyone," said van Nerekool,
very sadly; "but a clear conscience is to me precious above all
things. Farewell, madam."

He covered his face with both his hands, as he hurried from the
spot. For awhile he wandered about in the greatest excitement, seeking
the loneliest spots in the garden. Presently, however, he somewhat
recovered his composure, and, stunned by the blow that had just fallen
on him, he made his way back again to the inner gallery. There he
found Matilda van Meidema, who called to him, and said: "Mr. van
Nerekool, my friend Anna has requested me to give you a message,
it is this. Unless some means of rescue be found, Ardjan's case is
hopelessly lost. All the witnesses have either been corrupted or put
out of the way, so that his condemnation is certain."

