"And from whom has Miss Anna got all this information?" asked van
Nerekool with a sad absent smile.

"She had it from me, Mr. van Nerekool," replied the young girl.

"And how did you get to know all this, Miss Meidema?" he asked.

"Why, Mr. Judge," said she, "you happen to be in a rather inquisitive
mood! I suppose," she continued with a laugh, "your curiosity is
professional. The only thing I can tell you is that I have obeyed
Anna's orders and delivered my message." Thus saying, with a curtsey
she hurried away.

Charles wandered about for a while objectless among the guests. But,
after his conversation with Laurentia he could find no rest. He
looked round for Anna; but she, as daughter of the house, had,
on the occasion of a formal party like the present, many duties to
perform. Though the young girl's face showed but little enjoyment of
the scene around her, yet it wore its usual pleasant smile. It was,
however, a forced smile which, to her lover's eye, signified nothing
else than anxiety and restlessness. At that sight all desire to remain
left him, especially as he knew that he could not venture to approach
her. So he went to look for his hat; and having found it, took leave
of the Resident and of his wife, and a few minutes after he was gone.

"Take care! Think it over well," had been Laurentia's last whispered
words as he made his parting bow.








CHAPTER XII.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.--MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.


It was getting rather late in the day. The sun had already risen high
when Mr. and Mrs. van Gulpendam took their seat at the breakfast-table
in the pandoppo. The Resident, according to his invariable custom,
had risen early; but the ladies did not quite so soon recover from
the fatigues of the last night's ball. When, at length, fair Laurentia
appeared in the pandoppo she found her husband sitting in full dress,
light-blue coat and silver buttons on which the arms of Holland shone
conspicuous; but evidently in very bad temper. He sat impatiently
turning about a paper in his hands: "At last!" he cried.

