"It is a telegram," said van Gulpendam, moodily, "which I have just
received, and which has annoyed me not a little."

"A telegram?" she cried.

"Yes, a message from the Hague. Look! yesterday evening at nine
o'clock, this thing was sent off, and this morning by daylight,
we have it here."

"Well," said Laurentia, in no mood to humour her husband, "do you
call that so very quick? Don't you remember Amy's letter, when we
had sent her our congratulations on her engagement? Our telegram
left the office at Santjoemeh at eleven o'clock, and, she wrote to
us, that the very same morning at nine o'clock, it was delivered to
her. That's quick if you like--it seems to me, rather more than quick!"

"Why, Laurentia" said her husband, "I have explained it to you. The
reason lies in the difference of longitude."

"Yes, yes, I know all about that, the sun turns--no the earth turns. Oh
yes, I know all about it. But that does not alter the fact that it
was very quick work. Fancy to receive a telegram, actually before it
was sent off! But what can there be in that telegram from the Hague,
to put you out so?"

"Bah!" said van Gulpendam, "what do you women know about business?"

"Yes, but tell me," she insisted, "from whom is it?"

"It is from my brother Gerard," replied van Gulpendam shortly.

"And what is it about?" asked Laurentia; "now don't keep me waiting,
it is not gallant."

At the word gallant, van Gulpendam made a wry face, "Oh," said he,
"it is about the matter of the Netherland's Lion. Nothing can come
to it--unless--"

"Yes, unless what?" inquired Laurentia.

"Unless the opium monopoly at Santjoemeh, can be made to bring in a
great deal more money than it does at present. The estimates of our
colonial secretary are not at all approved of, and they reckon upon
getting a couple of millions more from that source."

"They, they, who are they?" continued Laurentia.

"Why--Sidin, pull down the blinds!" said the resident prudently. "That
sun," continued he, "is so troublesome shining through the
venetians. You ask who are they? Why they are the government, the
ministers, the Lower House in fact."

