"Oh," said Laurentia, carelessly, "is that all?"

"Is that all! of course it is," replied her husband grumpily, "quite
enough too, you know as well as I do that the farmer pays more than
twelve hundred thousand guilders for his privilege."

"Well," said Laurentia, "what of that?--next year he will have to
put down fifteen or eighteen hundred--there's the end of it."

"Of course," growled the Resident, "it is easy enough to say there's
the end of it."

"When is the contract to be renewed?" asked she.

"This September," was the reply.

"Very good, then you leave it to me."

"Yes, but--" objected van Gulpendam.

"Now, my dear," said she, "pray, let us have no fuss, our dear Javanese
friends will have to smoke a little more opium apiece--and--you will
wear the bertes knabbeldat--what do you call the thing?"

"Virtus nobilitat" said van Gulpendam, with dignity.

"All right! the Virtus nobilitat, you will wear it in your button hole,
but--it will be my doing."

"How so?" asked the husband, in surprise.

"Now Gulpie, that is my secret. You will see, the opium contract will
produce four or six hundred thousand more. Don't therefore let us
have any troubling about it before the time. Now let us change the
subject. How is it," she continued, "that you took so coolly what I
just now told you about Anna? about Anna, you know, and van Nerekool?"

"Come," said the Resident, "let us have our breakfast, Anna is not
coming down it seems, and I have no time to spare."

"All right," said his wife, "let us have breakfast, but that will not,
I hope, prevent you from answering my question?"

Van Gulpendam shook his head.

"Pass the coffee, nènèh," said Laurentia to her maid Wong Toewâ.

When the two cups of fragrant coffee stood before the pair, and each
had cut a piece of bread, had buttered it, and spread upon it a thin
slice of smoked venison, the lady, still anxious to have her answer,
asked:

"Well now, Gulpie dear?"

"If I am ever to succeed in getting more out of the opium contract,"
said he musingly, "I shall probably want van Nerekool's help."

