"Just so," said he, moodily.

"But, if that be so," persisted Laurentia, "it seems to me that Lim
Ho must not be found guilty. He must be got off at any price, that's
my way of looking at it."

"You are perfectly right, my dear," replied the Resident, "and it
is precisely for the purpose of getting him off, that I shall want
van Nerekool's help. If he should become our son-in-law--or if the
mere prospect of such a thing were to be held up to him--then--I have
already told you, that I intend--as soon as Zuidhoorn is out of the
way, to appoint him president of the court pro tem."

"Yes," broke in Laurentia, hastily, "but he won't hear of it."

"Won't hear of it?" said her husband, slowly, and in surprise.

"No, he won't hear of it."

"How do you know that?"

"Well," said Laurentia, "I will tell you. When last night I found
these two young people hugging and kissing in the garden, I sent Anna
about her business."

"Yes," said the Resident, very anxiously, "and then--"

"Then I just took the opportunity of sounding the young gentleman."

"Of sounding him?" cried van Gulpendam in dismay.

"Aye, my word was 'sounding'" replied Laurentia, very quietly,
"but I tell you there is no dealing with that fellow."

Thereupon Laurentia told her husband pretty accurately what had taken
place the night before in the Pandan grove and under the Tjemara trees,
and reported to him the conversation she had there held with Charles
van Nerekool. She omitted to tell him--very prudently too--that if she,
by chance, had had to deal with a man of laxer morals and principles,
she would have run great risk of becoming her daughter's rival. When
her story was ended, her husband heaved a deep sigh and throwing
himself back in his chair he said:

"Oh those women, those women! You have gone to work much too rashly,"
continued he. "You ought to have tacked about instead of running. No
doubt you had a fair chance before you--a very nice south easterly
trade--but you have thrown it away. You have gone full tilt at your
object, and so have overshot your anchorage!"

