"Oh, bother your tacks and runnings and trades and anchorages,"
cried fair Laurentia, out of patience, and vexed beyond measure to
find that all her fine management was so lightly spoken of. "You just
let me alone, that's the best thing you can do."

"But," said the Resident, "you have spoilt the whole job!"

"There was not much to spoil in the job, I can tell you, there was
no doing anything with that booby."

Very bitterly indeed did the fair woman speak these words. If but her
Gulpie had been able to seize the meaning of her smile. But after all
the French realistic school may be right when it says that there is
no blinder thing in the world than a husband. At all events, poor van
Gulpendam did not see, or he did not understand that peculiar smile.

"No doing anything with him, you say? Ah, well, who knows. Just
listen to me, Laurie. It is just possible, nay it is probable that,
after such a conversation, van Nerekool will shortly--to-day perhaps
or to-morrow--come and ask me for our Anna's hand."

"Well," said Laurentia, "what then?"

"Then I shall see," replied her husband with a self-satisfied smile,
"then I shall see what port I must steer for. I may, perhaps, know
how to bring him to his bearings. I may be clever enough to drive
him into some harbour of refuge."

"I hope you may," said Laurentia, incredulously, "but I very much
doubt your success."

"Meanwhile," resumed van Gulpendam, "you must use all your influence
with Anna. It is very likely that van Nerekool will give her a hail
before he makes up his mind to board me. Now, should that happen--why
then all may be well--You understand me, Laurie, don't you? Anna must
be our strongest ally."

"But," cried Laurentia, "would you really give our dear, beautiful
child to that sanctimonious young prig?"

"I must, if I can't manage it otherwise; but, you see we are not on
that tack just yet. If once we get into a good steady trade, and we
have got what we want--why then, we shall no doubt find some means
to get Anna to go about."

