Laurentia nodded. How little did these two parents know their own
child!

"And," continued the Resident, cynically, "to heave the love-stricken
simpleton overboard as so much useless ballast."

"Hush," said he, "here she comes!"

"Good morning, Anna, my darling. You have slept soundly, I daresay,
after your night's dissipation. How she did enjoy herself! How the
little corvette ran from the slips! Why! you did not miss a single
dance!"

Anna, to use her father's favourite phraseology, was thoroughly taken
aback. Her father then, had heard nothing at all about it--absolutely
nothing! After her adventure in the garden, she quite anticipated
stern faces in the morning, and was prepared for a good scolding. That,
indeed, was partly the reason why she had lingered so much longer than
usual in her room. And now, lo and behold! her father greeted her more
kindly and more cheerfully than ever before. Perhaps mamma had had no
time to make the serious communication. No, that was hardly possible,
her parents had been for a considerable time together in the pandoppo,
she knew that from Dalima. And yet--well--she replied to her father's
hearty greeting with an equally hearty kiss, and was just turning to
her mother when van Gulpendam said:

"That's right--now I have had my breakfast, I have had my morning
kiss--now I must be off to work, there is plenty of it waiting for
me. I must leave you ladies alone."

"Anna," continued he, more seriously, "listen attentively to what
your mother will have to say to you. Remember you must take all that
she will tell you as if it came from me. Good-bye, Anna, good-bye,
Laurentia."

And off he was, through the inner, into the front gallery, where he met
his private secretary who had been, for some time, waiting for him. He
shook hands, offered him a cigar, took one himself, and proceeded with
great care to light it at the match which his oppasser respectfully
offered him. When it was well lighted, he handed the taper to his
subordinate, who addressed himself as carefully and as systematically
as his chief to the important function of lighting his cigar.

