This done, the two officials walked for awhile up and down the roomy
gallery, discussing the morning's news, and making arrangements for
the day's work which lay before them.

Meanwhile, nonna Anna had exchanged her customary morning greeting
with her mother, and had sat down by her side at the breakfast table,
while baboe Dalima offered her the cup of coffee which she had poured
out at the little side-table.

"It is nice, miss Anna," said she, with a pleasant smile to her
youthful mistress.

Anna gave her a friendly little nod, took up the cup, and slowly sipped
the fragrant decoction, now and then passing the tip of her tongue
over her rosy lips as if unwilling to lose the least drop. When the
little cup was empty, she handed it back to the baboe, with the words:

"Another cup."

"Engèh, Nana," answered Dalima, as she took the cup and hastened to
the side-table.

Then Anna buttered a slice of bread; but she did this so slowly and
deliberately, with such an amount of concentrated attention indeed,
that it was clear her mind was not upon what she was doing. In fact,
she dreaded the opening of the impending conversation. Laurentia
sat next to her daughter not speaking a single word; but keeping
her eye constantly upon the girl. Very steadily she looked at her,
and very kindly too. She sat admiring the pure, fresh complexion
of the young girl, who, although she had passed a great part of the
night in dancing, and had probably slept but very little during the
remaining portion, was still as clear and bright as ever. She admired
also her slim yet well rounded form, admirably set off by the pretty
kabaja, and she sat calculating to what extent those charms might
have captivated that cold and pensive van Nerekool, to what extent
they might force him to bow his neck under the yoke which was being
prepared for him. But, if the mother's eye brightened as she looked
upon her daughter's beauty, yet, amidst all this admiration, one sad
thought would come up to her mind. More than a quarter of a century
ago, van Hoop gave that thought utterance when he said:

