"Daughter a-courting--mother grows old." And then there came over her
a feeling of jealousy, as she thought of the manly beauty of Charles
van Nerekool, who had treated her with such strange indifference. Would
she have to give up all hope of entangling that young man if he could
be made to despair of ever obtaining Anna's hand?

But--away with all such idle thoughts and fancies. The words of her
husband were still ringing in her ears. Her business was to save the
son of the opium-farmer, if she wished to see her dear Gulpie's breast
adorned with the bertes knabbeldat.

Thus, in silence, the daughter and the mother sat side by side. The
former could not trust herself to speak, and tried to hide her
confusion by affecting to be wholly engrossed in her breakfast, for
which, if the truth were told, she felt but very little appetite. The
latter sat collecting her thoughts, and making up her mind how best
to make the attack.

At length, Laurentia began in the most affectionate manner.

"Anna, my dear child, now just tell me what could have induced you
to walk about in the garden alone with Mr. van Nerekool last night?"

"Mother," stammered the girl, in dire confusion.

"You need not blush so, my dear child," continued her mother; "I
saw quite enough yesterday to tell me all that is going on. But that
does not make it clear to me how you formed that attachment. I fancy,
Anna," she continued, "I fancy I have some right to your confidence,
have I not?"

"O mother!" cried the poor girl, "I cannot myself explain to you how
it all happened."

"But, Anna!"

"I love Charles," cried Anna, wildly; "I love him, that is all I know
about it!"

"But tell me, Anna, have you ever seriously asked yourself whether
you feel for him that deep and lasting affection without which no
woman ought to permit the addresses of any man?"

"Yes, mother."

"Have you asked yourself whether this man, who has for the moment
gained your affections, is the one to whom you are prepared to devote
your whole life?"

