"But," cried Laurentia, interrupting her daughter's words; "that
sounds very much like a reproach."

"Do let me get on, mother dear," implored Anna; "do let me get on. You
have asked me how that affection arose in my heart--I would now lay
open my heart to you; you have a right to it; you are my mother."

"Then," she resumed, "I felt myself so utterly lonely in those gay
circles in which commonplace, self-sufficiency, mediocrity, and
frivolity reigned supreme. I felt myself so lonely in the midst of
that buzz of conversation which, to me, had no attraction--in the
midst of all those people for whom I had the greatest aversion--"

"Anna, Anna!" cried her mother, "take care of what you are
saying. Remember it is your parents' friends and your parents'
company that you are thus censuring."

"Is it my fault, dearest mother," continued Anna, "that I feel a
distaste for all such society? Have you not often felt the same
aversion--tell me, mother dear?"

Laurentia gave no reply; she seemed to devour her daughter's words.

"Go on," said she, somewhat sternly.

"Then," resumed Anna, "I used to slip away quietly to my piano;
there I found one never-failing means of getting rid of the company
I disliked--then--"

"Oh! yes," said Laurentia, sarcastically, "then my daughter used to
plunge into Beethoven, Mendelsohn, Mozart, Chopin and all the rest
of them, and neglect the world--"

"No, mother," hastily broke in Anna, "not neglect--but tried for
a while to forget the world which for me, as I have said, has no
attractions--in the glorious realm of music, which, as a paradise,
lay open before me."

"That is a mighty fine speech," said Laurentia, with mocking lip but
with moistened eye; for the emotional woman could not, with all her
cynicism, remain unmoved at her daughter's enthusiasm. "Very fine,
indeed; but, all this, remember, does not explain to me how you first
came to discover that you were in love with van Nerekool."

"Among all the company which surrounded you," continued Anna,
"there were but very few indeed who could resist the temptation of
a quadrille-party, of some political dispute or of a description of
a white damask burnouse to--"

