"To group themselves around the priestess of Harmony," said Mrs. van
Gulpendam, with a good-natured smile.

"To enjoy some better and higher pleasure than the trivial conversation
of the so-called beau monde," continued Anna. "Among those few
was Mr. van Nerekool, or rather I should say he was the only one;
for even if now and then some young man would come and stand at my
piano for a moment or two,--he did so--not for the sake of the music,
still less for the sake of her who played it--"

"Now, Anna dear!" broke in Mrs. van Gulpendam, "we are getting a
little too modest I think!"

"Still less I said," continued the young girl, not noticing the
interruption, "for the sake of her who played it; but merely because
I happened to be the daughter of the Resident to which some little
compliment ought now and then to be paid, and some little politeness
was due. All these would run away quickly enough the moment the
cards were brought in or the moment they heard some quotation from
the colonial news in the Java papers. Then it was that I was left
alone with Charles. I found in him a true lover of music, and one
who can feel what music means! Thus we were generally isolated in
the midst of a crowd, and thus used we to express our feelings in
the delicious melody which our fingers could produce--No, no, dear
mother," she continued, most seriously, "pray do not smile. On such
occasions never one word escaped from the lips of either of us which
could convey the slightest hint of what was passing in our hearts. That
word might perhaps have remained unspoken; for I am convinced that van
Nerekool was thinking as little about love as I was, and that we both
felt nothing more than a mutual attraction to one another. But last
night--during the Invitation à la valse, our secret slipped out--and
oh, dearest mother, you yourself witnessed our first kiss!"

As she spoke these words the young girl gently laid her head upon her
mother's breast, who flung her arm around her as she looked into her
daughter's appealing eyes.

