"I feel certain, dearest mother," cried Anna, "that Charles will do
anything to obtain my hand!"

"Do you?" asked Laurentia. "He would do anything you say. Are you
quite sure that you are not just a little too sanguine?"

"Oh, mother dear!" cried the girl in a deprecating tone.

"Yes, I said too sanguine; for I have some reason to fear that Charles
is not quite so deeply in love as he would wish you to suppose."

"Mother!" cried Anna, looking up at her reproachfully.

"Don't interrupt me, Anna. Last night, as you know, I remained for
some time in the garden with Mr. van Nerekool after I had, from his
own lips, heard the confession of his love."

"Mamma dear!" cried the young girl, breathlessly, "his confession
did you say!"

"Now pray don't excite yourself," said Laurentia with an icy
smile. "After he had confessed his attachment to you--I opened to
him the prospect, not only of obtaining your father's consent--"

"Oh, mother, dear, how kind of you," now sighed the young girl as
she covered Laurentia's face with kisses.

Laurentia gently put her aside and resumed: "I opened to him not
only the prospect of gaining your father's consent; but I further
proposed to him a means of greatly improving his own position, and
of thus making his marriage with a girl like you, more possible."

"A girl like me?" asked Anna in surprise. "Am I then unlike all other
girls that a marriage with me would be less possible?"

"My dear child," said Laurentia, "listen to reason. You know that from
your childhood you have been brought up in the midst of a certain
degree of luxury,--now surely you would not like to renounce all
these comforts, to which you have been born and bred and--"

"For the man I love I would sacrifice anything!" eagerly cried
the girl.

"Yes, I know," replied Laurentia coldly, "all that reads very well
in a novel; but you will not find that it will stand the test of
experience. In practical everyday life the saying is but too true:
'When poverty enters at the door, love flies out at the window.'"

