"Oh!" cried Anna, "there is no fear of that with me and Charles."

"That is all very fine," continued Laurentia, "but we, your parents,
we who have to entrust your future happiness to a husband, we must take
care that that husband can offer you a home free from the anxieties of
poverty. Now we were in hopes that we might have met Mr. van Nerekool
half way in this matter--But--"

"But--what mamma? oh, tell me what he said."

"Why, he had only one word to say--and that word was 'never.'"

"Never," cried Anna, "I do not quite understand you, mother. You
told me that he confessed to you that he loves me--you showed him
some prospect of winning my hand and he replies 'never!' How can that
possibly be?"

"I placed a condition before him," said Laurentia somewhat nervously.

"A condition!" cried Anna, "what might that be?"

"Well--it was a condition of marriage--if you will have it plainly."

"And--" cried Anna, "to that condition of marriage he replied
'never?' I am more puzzled than ever."

"It was after all but a very trifling matter," said Laurentia,
"it was merely just a little thing to please your father and, by
complying with it, Mr. van Nerekool might have helped your father
to win honour and glory--and, moreover, he might have considerably
improved his own position."

"Oh, dearest mother," said Anna, "there must be some misunderstanding,
Charles is a noble fellow--it is the true nobility of his soul which
mainly attracted me to him--Why! not many weeks ago he promised to
help me in saving the lover of my baboe and would he now--?"

"What?" exclaimed Laurentia, "the lover of your baboe?"

"Yes," replied Anna, "of baboe Dalima. But what has that to do
with it?"

"That is the very case!" cried Mrs. van Gulpendam, "I was recommending
him to--"

"Well, then you see," said Anna, quietly, as she interrupted her
mother, "you see clearly there must be some misunderstanding--all
that will very easily be explained. Tell me, pray, what condition
did you propose to van Nerekool?"

