Thus, our young friends had but little time to notice the intensity
of the heat. Their's was still that happy time of life in which man is
most capable of enjoying all that is grand and beautiful. Both of them
also were of a somewhat poetical nature, and the ever-varying scenery
which to the right and to the left lay stretched out before them,
could not fail to captivate and charm them by its sublimity and its
beauty. Time had indeed flown with them, when, in the neighbourhood of
a small dessa called Kalimatti, they caught sight, in the distance,
of four gentlemen, followed by a numerous escort all mounted and
spurring on to meet them.

"Hurrah!" cried van Rheijn, "there is William Verstork. Look, Charles,
that man yonder on the fine iron-grey riding at the head of the party!"

"Who are those with him?" asked van Nerekool--"Why if my eyes don't
deceive me--they are August van Beneden, Leendert Grashuis, Theodoor
Grenits and--by Heaven--yes, Fritz Mokesuep also!"

"You are right!" shouted his companion, "and escorted by the wedono,
the djoeroetoelies, the loerah, the kebajan, the kamitoewag, the tjank
(native chiefs) good Heavens!--by all the district and dessa-grandees
of Banjoe Pahit and their whole suite! And," he continued, as he
drew nearer, "upon my word all in full dress on their little horses,
with tiger-skin saddle-cloths and richly embroidered red velvet
or cloth saddles. Hurrah, capital fun!" cried Edward van Rheijn,
greatly excited as he waved his pith helmet to the advancing troop.

"Hurrah, hurrah!" shouted the others gleefully, and soon the group
of horsemen had joined the two friends and greetings and welcomes
were warmly exchanged.

"You seem to be out of spirits, Charles," said Verstork to van
Nerekool as he shook his hand; "what is the matter with you, old
fellow--I hope you are not ill?"

"No, thank you," replied the other, "I am perfectly well. I will tell
you by-and-by what ails me."

"Mr. van Nerekool is suffering perhaps from the effects of a refusal,"
remarked one of the young fellows who had accompanied Verstork.

