The controller cast a look at his friend and noticed at once that
the random and heedless shaft had struck home. He therefore at once
changed the conversation and said, "If you are not unwell then let
us forward to Banjoe Pahit."

"Gentlemen," he cried, "by threes trot!" and a moment after he gave
the word "Gallop!" just like some old cavalry officer.

There was no need of the spur,--the fiery horses at once dashed
forward, and away went the little band of friends galloping down the
avenue which lay stretched out before them, and which, with its soft
carpet of turf, hardly gave out a sound under the horses' hoofs.

"Capital road this," cried one of the company. "It speaks highly for
the care the controller takes of his district!"

William Verstork gave him an approving nod, he was evidently by no
means insensible to the compliment.

"Good means of communication, my friend, are the highways to
prosperity," replied he sententiously.

"No doubt," observed another with a scornful smile, "if the population
is allowed to make use of them!"

Behind the party of European horsemen, at the distance prescribed by
etiquette, followed the native chiefs with their retinue. They were
all mounted on spirited little horses of pure native breed, which were
quite able to keep up with the pace of the others, and might perhaps,
in a long journey, have outstayed them.

Now, while this cavalcade is rapidly moving on to Banjoe Pahit,
we will seize the opportunity of making a slight acquaintance with
the companions Verstork had brought with him. We will do this in as
few words as possible, as some of them, at least, are only casually
connected with this narrative.

Augustus van Beneden was a native of Gelderland, a fine healthy
looking fellow of about twenty, whose yellow curly hair and firm,
yet open countenance were characteristic of the inhabitants of the
Betuwe. He was a barrister by profession, and had lately settled down
in Santjoemeh where he was beginning to get a fairly good practice.

