Leendert Grashuis, a South-Hollander, held the position of deputy
surveyor at the land registry office of Santjoemeh. He was an excellent
mathematician, and had greatly distinguished himself in the geodetic
and geomorphic sciences. As surveying engineer, his services were
invaluable in all questions which had to do with the fixing of the
boundaries of property in the residence. When he entered upon his
duties, he found the whole matter of boundaries in the most utter
confusion--a confusion, which became only worse confounded, when,
in settling disputes about real property, the official maps had to
be produced and appealed to. When called upon to give his decision,
Leendert Grashuis always was on the side of right and equity, and
offered the most determined opposition to all manner of rapacity or
exaction, even should it happen to be the Government itself which
made the encroachment. He was about seven and twenty years of age,
and upon his agreeable exterior, good-nature and perfect sincerity
were so plainly stamped, that he was a universal favourite with all
who had the privilege of knowing him.

Theodoor Grenits also, was a man of a similar nature. He was a
native of Limburg, and, in his intercourse with his neighbours the
Belgians, had acquired a good deal of the free and easy manner of that
nation. He, therefore, was more especially in request in company where
youth and pleasure presided. He had received his early education at
the Athenæum at Maastricht, and had then gone to Leyden to complete his
legal studies. But in these studies, he had most signally failed. Now
he was employed in a merchant's office, and was striving, by strict
attention to his work and by diligence, to make up, in a mercantile
career, for the time he had wasted at the University. But, though
no great student, he also was a right noble and honest young fellow,
and in thorough sympathy with the company in which we just now have
met him.

Fritz Mokesuep, however, was a man of totally different stamp, and was
in every way the very opposite of the others. He was about thirty years
old and was a clerk in the revenue office at Santjoemeh. Education
he had none; for at a very early age his father had placed him in the
office of a tax-collector in a small provincial town in Holland. This
want of education necessarily closed to him the prospect of rising in
the social scale, which, however, he was very ambitious of doing. An
opportunity had offered, which he thought would enable him to attain
his object. The Colonial Secretary, having need of the services of
men acquainted with certain special branches in the collection of
the revenue which were at that time badly managed in Dutch India,
offered to send out thither a certain number of men thus specially
qualified, without demanding any further examination whatever. Of this
offer Mokesuep had taken advantage, in the hope that adroitness and
suppleness of spirit might, in those far-away possessions, supply for
him the place of more solid attainments. In this hope, however, he was
doomed to be disappointed, for, having on his arrival in Batavia, been
placed as third clerk in the department of finance, he had very soon
given abundant evidence of the exceeding narrowness of his views and
abilities; and thus he was packed off to Santjoemeh in the capacity
which he was now still occupying there, and which bid fair to be
his "bâton de maréchal." He was literally a "tax-collector" in the
least favourable sense of the word; and, upon his naturally depraved
character, the very nature of his office had had a still more depraving
effect. He was artful, cunning, hypocritical, and thoroughly false by
nature. His only pleasure in the world was to scrape and to hoard,
and he scrupled not to employ any means, even lying and cheating,
to gratify his passion. This grasping instinct of his came out, of
course, most strongly in his mode of collecting the taxes; and the
narrowness of his mind showed itself in the petty annoyances with
which he was perpetually plaguing all those with whom he came into
official contact. His greatest enjoyment was in extorting the last
half-cent though he would never protect anyone against demands however
excessive. On the contrary, the Indian Government might safely reckon
upon his co-operation, whenever money had to be squeezed out, even
though it might be by means the most arbitrary and the most unjust. His
outward appearance, was entirely in harmony with his character. His
head was small, gradually growing narrower towards the top, and
was sparsely covered with chestnut hair, which he wore plastered
against the temples, in two elegant curls by means of bandoline,
gum, starch, fishlime, or some such abomination. His face was long
and angular, and wore that faded yellow look which sometimes, a towel
will assume when allowed to lie for a long time unused, in a drawer or
cupboard. His nose was well-formed and sharp; but with the projecting
lips of his small mouth, it formed a profile something between that
of a baboon and a ferret--at all events, it plainly enough indicated
that he belonged to the family of the rodentia. That was the reason,
perhaps, why he was familiarly called Muizenkop (mouse-head). Not a
vestige of hair or down appeared on his chin or lip--in fact a Jesuit
father might have envied him his sallow faded complexion. How could a
man like William Verstork have ever admitted such a fellow into his
company? The reason was obvious. Mokesuep was the strict letter of
fiscal regulations incarnate, and as the controller wanted to have
as little as possible to do with the narrow minded quibblings of the
financial department, he had attached this man to his staff, who,
if he did not always give him the best advice with regard to excise
questions, at all events protected him against unpleasant remarks.

