While the reader has been occupying himself with these very slight
personal sketches, the cavalcade had traversed the distance which
lay between the dessas Kalimatti and Banjoe Pahit, and now was just
entering the latter place.

Banjoe Pahit, a large dessa, pleasantly situated in a mountainous part
of the island had, on that afternoon, in honour of its expected guests,
donned its festive attire. On all sides the inhabitants appeared out
of doors, even the women and children all in their very best apparel
which they generally wore only on Fridays. At the flag-staff, which
stood in the grounds of the Controller's quarters, a brand-new Dutch
flag was flying. The Wedono, the Loerah, and other principal men of
the dessa--aye, even the public vaccinator and the Mohammedan priest
had followed that example, and expressed their zeal on this occasion,
and their goodwill, by hoisting the tricolor by the side of their
houses on the bamboo pole from which usually a dovecote used to
dangle. The cymbals also were sounding merrily, and imparted to the
demonstrations of the inhabitants, who all had turned out to welcome
the strange gentlemen, a very characteristic and local stamp.

"Upon my word," cried Edward van Rheijn, once again, "capital fun--our
Controller is giving us a grand reception--that is a good beginning."

"I have no hand, whatever, in that fun," replied Verstork. "The
people are rejoicing because you have come to rid them of the swarms
of tjellings, which ravage their fields to a frightful extent. You
will see how enthusiastically they will turn out to-morrow to help
us in beating up the game."

The cavalcade had now entered the grounds, in which stood the
Controller's house, and the riders were dismounting.

"Gentlemen," said Verstork addressing van Nerekool and van Rheijn,
"I bid you welcome to my poor dwelling." And then more generally to
the company, he said: "We shall take a few minutes to make ourselves
comfortable after our hot ride, and have a bath, and then it will be
time to sit down to dinner."

