"So early as this?" asked one of the guests.

"To be sure," replied Verstork, "for after we have had something
to eat--which meal you must take as a hunter's dinner, substantial
but short--we shall have to get into the saddle again, to make a
reconnaissance at the Djoerang Pringapoes, for we must settle before
sunset where our battue will have to start from, and where we shall
have to post ourselves and lie in wait for the animals."

"But we shall have the moon to-night, shall we not?" enquired van
Rheijn. "I even fancy that it is full moon."

"You are quite right," said Verstork, "and we shall need it, too,
on our ride home. Believe me, our arrangements will take up some
considerable time; and then we shall all have to turn in early,
because to-morrow by daybreak we must be at our posts in the Djoerang,
and begin work."

Then turning to two of the Javanese chiefs, who had followed the party
into the grounds, he continued: "Wedono and you Loerah, you will both,
I hope, presently, ride with us to the Djoerah?"

"Yes, kandjeng toean," was their reply.

"Thanks; you will stay to dinner?"

But, in the most courteous manner possible, both the Javanese begged
to be excused;--they had some business to transact at home--at the
time appointed, however, they would be quite ready to start.

They did not say--which was indeed the reason of their refusal--that
they feared that among the viands pork might be included, or that some
of the dishes might be prepared with lard or some other ingredient
derived from the accursed and unclean beast.



The sun had just set, when the sportsmen had finished their survey of
the principal approaches to the Djoerang Pringapoes, and had made all
the necessary arrangements with the two Loerahs of Banjoe Pahit and
of Kaligaweh, for placing the marksmen, and other matters pertaining
to the morrow's sport.

They happened to be just then in the lower part of the Djoerang,
where a small stream, which runs right through the ravine, flows down
over its rocky bed, forming a series of small cataracts and eddies
which contribute to make the landscape, already a beautiful one,
the most picturesque spot in the whole Residence of Santjoemeh.

