"Who is running Amokh?" cried Verstork.

"I don't know, kandjeng toean," replied the man. "Women and children
are flying about yelling and screaming and I hurried off at once
to fetch the Loerah; but as I ran along I heard that Setrosmito is
the murderer."

"Setrosmito!" exclaimed Verstork in utter amazement. "What, old
Setrosmito? Quite impossible; is it not, Loerah?"

"No, kandjeng toean," was the chief's reply.

"But the man is much too quiet a fellow for that," continued the
Controller. "Moreover, he is not given to opium smoking, is he?"

"No kandjeng toean," was the cautious reply.

The screaming still continued, and though it was already growing dusk,
people could be distinctly seen running about wildly in the dessa.

"Come, gentlemen," said Verstork to his friends, "my presence is
required yonder. Will you come with me? If we make haste we can get
there in a minute or two."

"All right," cried the young men with one voice; "lead on, we follow
you."

There was but one of the little party who ventured to ask: "Is it
quite safe, do you think?"

That man was Mokesuep; but his objection was lost to the others. They
had already followed Verstork's example, and digging their spurs in
their horses' flanks were tearing along the road to Kaligaweh.

Mokesuep had not, however, made up his mind. He was not quite so
rash as that. Dreadful tales of "Amokh runners" were crossing his
brain. For a moment or two he stood irresolute not well knowing what
he had better do; but just then the shrieks redoubled while the gongs
were beaten furiously. That was quite enough for him. Thought he to
himself: "In such cases it is most prudent to take care and keep a
whole skin." So he turned his horse, gave it the spurs and galloped
off to Banjoe Pahit instead of to Kaligaweh.

As they were riding to Kaligaweh, Verstork thought it well to caution
his friends by telling them that in cases of Amokh running the thing
is to be on one's guard, and that fear and panic only serve to make
matters worse and increase the danger. "At all events," said he,
"keep your revolvers ready."

