His caution was, however, not needed. When the horsemen came racing
into the dessa they met a few frightened women clasping their little
ones to their breast as if to protect them; but all the men were
standing with lance or kris in hand drawn up around a little hut which
was closed, and about which there was nothing in any way remarkable.

"If he comes out we must catch him on our lances," was the cry.

"What is all this confusion about?" cried Verstork, leaping from his
horse, throwing the bridle to one of the bystanders, and stepping
into the ring.

"Setrosmito has been running Amokh," was the reply from all sides.

"Setrosmito, how is it possible?" muttered the Controller, inaudibly.

But scarcely had he uttered the words, before the door of the cabin
flew open and Setrosmito appeared on the threshold.

He was an elderly man with grizzly hair which was flying in wild
confusion about his head. His jacket was torn to ribbons and a few
shreds of it only hung from one of his arms. His face, breast and
hands were smeared with blood, so that the poor wretch looked a
hideous object.

"There he is, there he is," shouted the mob. "Now look out!"

Every lance-point was at once thrown forward in anticipation of a
mad rush.

"I don't wish to hurt anybody," cried Setrosmito, to his fellows
of the dessa. "But let no one come near me to lay a hand on me;
the first that touches me is a dead man!"

With so frantic a gesture did he wave his kris, and so ghastly did
he look in his frenzy, that the crowd rushed back in dismay. Thus
Verstork, who the instant before had stood lost in the press, now
found himself standing in the foreground.

No sooner, however, had the unfortunate Javanese caught sight of the
white man than he cried out in piteous tones.

"Pardon, kandjeng toean, pardon," and hurling his kris from him he
flung himself at the Controller's feet. "Pardon, pardon, kandjeng
toean!" he cried again and again.

All this had passed with lightning rapidity--so quickly, indeed,
that the bystanders scarcely knew what was going on. When the man
besmeared with blood had advanced towards the Controller, many thought
that the latter's life was in danger. His friends, revolver in hand,
rushed forward to protect him, the natives also were springing forward
to despatch the now defenceless murderer. But Verstork calmly stopped
them, put the foremost back with his hand, and restrained the others
by crying out in a tone of command:

