"Back, all of you! Keep back from the man. Do you hear?"

And going up to the crouching wretch, who was still crying in an
imploring tone of voice "Pardon, kandjeng toean," he said:

"Have you been running Amokh, Setrosmito?"

"Sir," cried the latter, "I have killed a bandoelan who was acting
disgracefully towards my child. Yes, I have done that. I have also
wounded a policeman who was helping him in it. Who would have protected
my child if I had not done so? But I have harmed no one else. The
whole dessa will tell you so!"

Verstork looked towards the crowd.

All stood breathless around; not a word of protest was spoken.

"You confess to having killed a bandoelan and wounded an
officer?" asked Verstork, sternly.

"Yes, kandjeng toean," said the poor Javanese, almost inaudibly.

"Wedono," said Verstork, "have this man bound."

"Pardon, kandjeng toean, pardon!" cried the wretched man, when he
heard the order. "Pardon! I have only protected my daughter from
disgusting ill-treatment."

"You have resisted the authorities, nobody has a right to do that,"
replied the Controller in a firm and impressive voice. "But,
Setrosmito," he continued, "the matter will be investigated by
the proper tribunal, and if, as you say, your child has suffered
ill-usage--no doubt that will be taken into consideration, and your
punishment will be lessened accordingly."

A dull murmur arose in the crowd. They knew by sad experience what
kind of justice they might expect from the white man when there was
opium in the question. A bitter smile was on every countenance, and
many a curse was muttered against that unmerciful race which holds
sway over Java and sucks its very life's blood. Now that the people
began to see that they had to do--not with a wild Amokh runner who
murdered indiscriminately but--with a father who had merely protected
his child from outrage, the feelings of the crowd instantly changed and
not a man or woman in the dessa but pitied the wretched criminal. But
a single commanding look from the Controller and one wave of the
Wedono's hand sufficed to repress every sign of displeasure.

