"Wedono," said Verstork, "you will have that man carefully guarded--you
and the Loerah will be answerable for him; and you will further see
that to-morrow morning early, he is taken under properly armed escort
to Santjoemeh."

"Pardon, kandjeng toean," again groaned the unhappy father, as the
people of the dessa helped to tie his arms.

"The 'Higher Court' must decide the matter, Setrosmito," said Verstork,
"I may and I can do no more than my duty."








CHAPTER XIV.

A SEARCH FOR OPIUM. WHAT CAME OF IT.


To return that night to Banjoe Pahit was clearly impossible. Verstork
had to hold a preliminary inquiry into the terrible event which
had so suddenly disturbed the dessa, and about this investigation,
he was determined to set at once, and to conduct it in the thorough
and conscientious manner in which he was wont to discharge all his
duties. These were the facts which this inquiry brought to light.

At about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, Singomengolo, the opium farmer's
trusty spy, and a Chinese bandoelan had made their appearance in the
dessa Kaligaweh. They had proceeded straight to the opium-den, where
they had to obtain some necessary information from the men in charge
of that establishment. When they had learned what they wanted to know,
they went to the Loerah's house; but that functionary was not at home,
having been called away, as we know, to make the necessary arrangements
for the next day's hunting. So the two worthies had betaken themselves
to one of the other members of the dessa government, who granted
them the assistance of the local police. Accompanied by a couple of
policemen, the Chinese bandoelan went to the dwelling of Setrosmito,
the father of Baboe Dalima, and when he got there, he signified his
intention of searching the premises.

Said he to Setrosmito: "You never visit the store kept by Babah Than
Kik Sioe, you never smoke any opium there, nor even purchase any
from him. The opium-farmer has, therefore, come to the conclusion
that you manage somehow to get hold of smuggled opium. Anyhow, my
orders are to search your house, thoroughly."

