"I never go to the den to smoke," was the honest old peasant's
straightforward reply, "nor do I smoke opium at home; you will find
nothing of the kind under my roof. But do as you like!"

Thereupon, the Chinaman and his two policemen were about to enter,
when Setrosmito stopped them.

"No, no," said he, very calmly, "wait a bit. Before you begin,
I shall have you fellows searched."

And, turning to some of his friends whom the appearance of the
bandoelan had brought about the hut, he said: "Sidin and Sariman,
just lend a hand to overhaul these fellows."

The opium-hunters were too well used to such treatment to make any
serious resistance, and they submitted to the scrutiny--a scrutiny
which was conducted most minutely, but which did not result in
producing the least trace of opium. When they had been examined
thoroughly, Setrosmito allowed the men to enter his dwelling, and to
proceed with their visitation of the premises.

The hunt which ensued was merely a repetition of the scene which
had, a short time ago, taken place in the wretched cabin of poor
Pak Ardjan; but if no opium had been found upon the persons of the
searchers, neither did the Chinese bandoelan, nor his men succeed in
discovering the slightest trace of contraband goods in any corner
of the house. Just as in Pak Ardjan's case, here again they turned
over everything, and ransacked every hole and corner; but not the
slightest vestige of opium was found in the place.

At length the Chinaman despairing of success, and very angry at his
failure, cried out in a rage: "Where are your children?"

Setrosmito quietly answered, "The children are on the common minding
the oxen."

An evil smile played upon the yellow features of the bandoelan,
when he heard this man actually was the possessor of a pair of oxen.

In the once thriving dessa Kaligaweh, there were, alas! at present
very few of the inhabitants who could boast of owning so much as
that. He did not, however, speak a single word; but he left the hut
taking his two policemen with him, and went to report to Singomengolo
that all their trouble had been fruitless.

