When Singo had heard his subordinate's statement, he looked with a
contemptuous and pitying smile upon him, as he scornfully said to
the Chinaman:

"Much use you are to Lim Ho and Lim Yang Bing! You a bandoelan! You
will never find smuggled opium," he continued, in a jeering tone,
"you are too clumsy."

"No," was the man's indignant reply, "nor you either, where there is
no opium to be found!"

"Come, Keh," said Singo. "Will you bet me a rix-dollar that I don't
manage to find some?"

"Quite impossible," cried the Chinaman, "I have turned the house
inside out. I have searched the bamboo laths of the walls and roof,
and there is nothing--absolutely nothing anywhere."

"Have you looked under the hearth?" asked Singomengolo.

"Yes."

"And in the ashes under the hearth?"

"Yes," was the reply again.

"And have you grubbed up the floor?"

"Yes."

"And have you turned over the baleh-baleh and the cushions?"

"Yes, yes, yes!" cried the man, impatiently. "I am no child,
I suppose."

"No, you are no child," jeered Singo, "but you are one of the greatest
fools in the world; as stupid as one of those oxen! Now, just you
come along with me," he added, after having flung these amenities at
the head of his pig-tailed countryman. "Just you come along with me
and you will see that my eyes are better than yours. You could see
nothing; but I shall manage to ferret out something before long. Those
mangy dessa-dogs always have opium about them."

The wretch seemed to forget that in that very dessa he had himself
first seen the light; however--that is the way of the world!

So the four men set out once again to Setrosmito's house; and once
again, as before, did the Javanese attempt to insist upon searching the
persons of his unwelcome visitors before allowing them to enter. But
Singomengolo would have nothing of the kind. He refused point-blank
to submit to any search. Said he, in his blustering way: "You lay your
hands on me and I will thrash you like a mangy cur!" Setrosmito tried
to protest; but it was in vain. "Aye, aye," said he, "if that be the
case then I have but little doubt that they will find anything they
want. I know all about those tricks. Kabajan," he continued, as he
turned to one of the chief men of the dessa, who stood looking on
among the crowd which was rapidly assembling. "Kabajan, I call upon
you to witness what is about to happen here."

