But the latter, who had the greatest horror of coming into collision
with the wretches of the opium monopoly, made no reply whatever to
the old man's appeal, and quietly slipped away.

Singomengolo, with a brutal and defiant laugh, entered the hut with
his followers. It so happened that at the moment, Setrosmito's little
children also came in. The two boys and their sister had just returned
from the common, and opened their eyes wide at seeing so many people
assembled round their father's house. The two boys were eight and nine
years of age. Like most of the young Javanese children, they had pretty
little faces, with the funniest expression in their twinkling and
roguish dark-brown eyes; but their appearance was, to a European eye,
wholly spoilt by the manner in which their heads had been treated. They
were clean shaven except one single tuft of hair of about a hand's
breadth, which the razor had spared and which one of the boys wore
on the top of his head, and the other over his left ear. They had the
well-formed and supple limbs which are characteristic of their race,
and were exceedingly slender in the waist. These natural advantages
were seen to the greatest advantage since, in accordance with the
primitive customs of the island, they ran about completely naked,
with nothing on at all except a silver ring round each ankle. The
little girl, a child of seven, was remarkably pretty, her well-formed
childish face peeping out charmingly under a profusion of jet-black
glossy hair. Her arms were bare, and the only clothing she wore was a
bright-coloured patchwork apron which was secured round the hips by a
slender chain of silver, from which dangled a small ornamental plate
of the same metal. When they ran into the hut they found Singomengolo
very busy indeed turning over the contents of boxes and prying into
pots and pans, while their father was most carefully watching every
gesture he made, and was not allowing a single motion of his nimble
hands to pass unnoticed. This close attention vexed the wretched spy
beyond measure, who thus saw his wicked plan frustrated, because,
while those keen eyes were upon his fingers, he could not even attempt
to exercise his sleight of hand without being instantly detected. In
the hope therefore of distracting the father's attention, Singo made a
sign to the Chinaman, who, with his slanting eyes, sat looking at the
children and leering most offensively at pretty little Kembang. The
man understood the signal and at once seized one of the boys, and,
under the pretence of searching for concealed opium, he felt all over
their little bodies, under the armpits, in fact, anywhere wherever
a little mandat-ball could by any possibility lie hidden. The boys
kicked and fought under this disgusting treatment and did all they
could to bite and scratch the dirty scoundrel; but not a single cry
did they utter which might draw away their father's eyes from the
manipulations of Singomengolo. But when the bandoelan laid hold of
the girl and strove to tear off her apron, the poor child could not
repress a loud cry of terror, she tore herself away from his rude
grasp, and flying to her mother, tried to hide herself on her breast,
while the poor woman clasped her child in her arms as if to protect
it from further insult. It was, however, in vain; the Chinaman with
his sickly yellow face came up to the mother and, with the help of
his two assistants, wrenched the poor girl from the woman's arms,
who was wholly unable to resist their violence.

