"Your turn next," cried the Chinaman to the mother, "that young cat
has had plenty of time to pass the stuff to you. Keep your seat!"

Then the disgusting scene through which the two boys had passed
was re-enacted on this helpless child--a proceeding infinitely more
loathsome, inasmuch as its victim was a little creature of the tender
sex towards whom the wretch thought he might with impunity act as
he pleased.

"Alla tobat!" screamed the poor woman who was compelled to see her
daughter thus outraged wantonly before her eyes.

That bitter cry of distress had the desired effect. For a single
instant it caused Setrosmito to turn his watchful eyes to his wife;
but that single instant was sufficient. Quick as lightning Singomengolo
took advantage of it, and slipped his closed hand under the little
Pandan mat which was spread out over the baleh-baleh and which,
during the search, had already three or four times been lifted and
shaken without result. Then, in triumph, he produced from under it
a little copper box, and, as he held it up with a theatrical gesture
he exclaimed:

"You see that; after all, there was smuggled opium in the house;
I knew I should find it!"

Setrosmito turned deadly pale at the sight; he well knew what the
Dutch law-courts had in store for him, and the thought of the ruin
which thus stared him in the face filled him with rage and fury.

"There was no opium concealed here," he cried out; and in his despair
not well knowing what he was doing, he put his hand out mechanically
to the kris, an old heirloom which was stuck into the bamboo-wall
above the baleh-baleh.

"You dirty dog," he cried to Singomengolo, "it was you yourself that
slipped that box under the mat!"

The words had scarcely passed his lips before Singomengolo answered
the frantic accusation by a blow with his clenched fist which struck
Setrosmito right in the mouth. Maddened with pain and rage the unhappy
man plucked the kris from its sheath; but at that moment, suddenly,
little Kembang uttered a heartrending scream of pain and horror. That
cry saved the life of the opium spy. The poor father looked round as
if bewildered at the sound; but when he saw the disgusting leer upon
the Chinaman's face and in what an outrageously indecent manner that
wretch was treating his pretty little flower, the blood seemed to rush
to his head and his rage was at once turned into another direction. A
red mist--red as blood--clouded his eyes.

