"Help, help, pain, pain!" cried poor little Kembang.

Utterly blinded and wholly beside himself with fury the father,
kris in hand, flew towards the miscreant.

"Amokh, Amokh!" shouted one of the policemen, as he saw the flaming
kris in the frenzied father's hand.

"Amokh, Amokh!" cried the crowd outside taking up the shout without
knowing what was going on inside the hut. Women and children rushed
away yelling and screaming in all directions. Soon on all sides
resounded the fatal words:

"Amokh, Amokh!"

The men flew home to fetch their lances and krisses, not in the
least knowing what really was the matter, but at the mere terror of
the sound.

"Amokh, Amokh!" repeated the watchmen as they rushed wildly to the
guardhouse and began to make as much noise as they could upon the
public gongs.

The policeman who had been the first to cry Amokh, made a frantic
effort to draw his sabre; but the blade was so firmly rusted into
the sheath that no efforts he could make would draw the weapon. The
other policeman who had no time to draw tried to lays hands upon the
infuriated Javanese; but as he attempted to seize him, he received a
slash across the face and breast which was no doubt but a deep flesh
wound; but though not mortal, occasioned so much pain and so much
bleeding that the wounded man fell back moaning and was glad enough
to save his life in headlong flight. The sight was quite enough for
his comrade, and he also took to his heels at full speed.

Then Setrosmito found himself face to face with the ill-starred
Chinaman, who had not let go his hold on the little girl and concerning
whose outrageous behaviour there could be not the slightest doubt.

"Let her go! let her go, I say!" yelled the father, mad with rage and
foaming at the mouth. Whether the bandoelan was utterly bewildered in
the presence of such imminent peril, or whether, in his excitement,
he did not realise the full extent of the danger; suffice it to say
that he did not obey that supreme command. His wan face now made more
than usually hideous by passion, wore a vacant and unmeaning smile;
still he did not release the girl; but only tried to get her in front
of him, and to shield himself behind her.

