"Amokh, Amokh!" was still the cry all around.

"Let go!" roared Setrosmito, again; and again the wretched Chinaman
replied with a vacant laugh.

"Amokh, Amokh!" resounded the gong with threatening roar.

"Let go!--You won't!--Well then, die like a dog!--" shrieked the
wretched father, goaded to madness. And--with lightning speed, before
the miserable Chinaman had time to cower down behind the little girl
whom he still held before him--Setrosmito drew the well-tempered
blade across the fellow's throat.

"Alas, I am dead!" yelled the Chinaman, his eyes wildly rolling in
his head. They were the last words he uttered. With convulsive clutch
he tried to close the gaping wound in his neck; but it was no use,
the blood violently came spurting in fine jets through his fingers,
a dreadful fit of coughing seized him, and the torrent of blood
which rushed from his mouth covered poor little Kembang from head to
foot. Tottering like a drunken man, and still grasping the girl, the
wretch, for a few moments, tried to steady himself, but then reeled
and fell heavily to the ground in the agony of death.

"Amokh, Amokh!" was still the cry all round the hut.

"Amokh, Amokh!" still harshly roared the gongs.

For three or four seconds Setrosmito, after his dreadful deed, stood
gazing about him like a man utterly dazed or in a dream. He at length
brought his left hand to his eyes and then slowly he seemed to recover
his reason; then he began to realize his position. At his feet there
lay the Chinese bandoelan still convulsively twitching in the throes
of death; but soon all was over.

All this had passed in an incredibly short space of time, almost with
the swiftness of thought; but the room in which the father stood over
the victim of his momentary frenzy was already quite deserted; for,
with his men, Singomengolo had also taken to his heels. Even the two
little boys, who at first had stared at the spectacle hardly knowing
what was taking place, had taken to flight in alarm at their father's
threatening kris, and the wife had snatched up her little daughter
and she also had rushed from the house.

