"Amokh, Amokh!" that shout outside sounded in the ears of the
unhappy man as his death-knell. He knew but too well of what terrible
significance was the fatal word. He knew well that wherever that word
is heard, the entire population rushes at once to arms, and that,
without stopping to make any inquiry, without even knowing who the
man-slayer is, it cuts him down without the smallest mercy, though
perhaps he may in reality be guilty of nothing worse than merely
defending his own life or protecting the honour of wife or children.

Already a few armed men came charging into the hut with their
lance-points levelled at his breast.

"Stand back!" shouted Setrosmito whose rage had not yet had time to
cool down. "Stand back! whoever comes nearer I will serve as I have
served that wretch!"

The man was evidently in deadly earnest and the kris was waved in
so threatening a manner at the words that his assailants turned and
fled in alarm and formed up in a close ring around the hut. In that
circle there was a great deal of talking, of consulting, of screaming
and gesticulating; but there seemed not to be a single man who felt
the smallest desire of again crossing the threshold.

It was at this juncture that Controller Verstork came galloping up
with the gentlemen who accompanied him and, as we have heard, put an
end to the murderous scene by taking the ill-fated man prisoner.

In the course of the inquiry which followed Singomengolo produced the
opium which he declared he had found in Setrosmito's house and which,
in the interest of the opium-farmer, he had confiscated.

In the small copper-box there was but a very small quantity of the
poppy-juice which, when weighed at the opium store, was found to be
but fifty matas, that is about eighteen milligrams. It was a brownish
sticky mass enclosed in a tiny box which could be easily concealed
in the closed palm of a man's hand. The Controller took possession
of the box and in the presence of the opium-hunter he sealed it up
according to the law.

