"Did anyone witness the finding of this box under the mat on the
baleh-baleh?" asked Verstork.

"Oh yes, certainly," was the reply, "the Chinese bandoelan saw me
find it."

"The man who is dead? Anyone else?" continued the Controller.

"Yes, the two policemen," said Singo.

"Indeed!" remarked Verstork. "These were the men, I think, who,
a few moments before could discover nothing?"

"No matter," said the opium spy with great effrontery. "I, kandjeng
toean," he continued, "am a sworn bandoelan--I found it there and
my word suffices. The testimony of the policemen is altogether
superfluous."

The look of utter contempt and loathing which Verstork cast upon him
as he spoke seemed to have but little effect upon the shameless spy;
for he merely made the usual obsequious salute and as he turned to go,
he muttered:

"I shall go and make my report to Babah Lim Yang Bing and to the
Inspector of Police."

Then he mounted his horse and rode away seemingly along the high-road
to Santjoemeh. Seemingly; for presently it will appear whither he
actually did go and what business he had on hand.

As soon as he was out of sight of the dessa he took a pathway to the
right which ran through the rice-fields and along that bridle-path
he rode across the hilly country and thus took a more direct way to
the capital than that which the highway offered. His horse seemed to
know the country well and made good progress, so that it was hardly
midnight when he reached a lonely little cabin. There he dismounted,
knocked up its inmate and sent the man on with a message to Santjoemeh.

When Verstork reached the house of the Loerah who with the Wedono
had actively assisted him in his troublesome inquiry, it was about
nine o'clock in the evening.

He found his friends assembled there and impatiently awaiting his
arrival.

"I say," muttered August van Beneden, "how long you have kept us!"

The young barrister was not in the best of tempers just then for he
had been very anxiously looking forward to the promised expedition
and now he began to fear that it might not come off at all. Moreover
he had, in the Loerah's house, been frightfully bored as he waited
for his friend's return.

