"I say, how long you have kept us!"

"It was no fault of mine," replied Verstork. "I have had my hands
pretty full to-night."

"Besides," he continued, "it makes no great difference; for the more
I can get through to-night the less I shall have to do in the morning."

"In the morning?" said another of the company in no agreeable surprise.

"Yes, of course," said Verstork. "Supposing for a moment that in
order to keep you company, I had not held that inquiry this evening;
but had ridden back with you to Banjoe Pahit as we proposed to do,
why--then I must have gone through it all to-morrow morning and then
we must have said good-bye to our hunting party."

"To-morrow morning!" echoed Edward van Rheijn. "Would not Monday
morning have done just as well?"

The Controller gave the young man a look which evidently was full of
displeasure. He had indeed a sharp answer on the tip of his tongue;
but he refrained from uttering it, and very quietly replied:

"No, no, Monday would have been too late in a matter of this
kind. Remember, we have to do with a case of man-slaughter which is
moreover complicated by an opium scandal, and as matters stand even
now we shall find this a sufficiently perplexing business."

"And are you quite ready now?" asked van Rheijn.

"Yes," replied the other.

"So that to-morrow morning there will be nothing to detain you?"

"All right, all right!" said Verstork somewhat impatiently.

"And you will be able to take the lead in our expedition, I hope."

"Yes, yes, you need not trouble about that, I have only a couple of
letters to write."

"A couple of letters!" cried van Rheijn but half reassured.

"A short report," said the Controller, "to the Resident, and a request
to the native prosecutor and to the doctor to come and view the body
and to hold the inquest."

"Is not that right, van Nerekool?" continued he, turning to his
friend. "That is the proper course to take, is it not?"

"What did you say?" said the young lawyer starting up as from a dream,
and passing his hand over his forehead;--lost in anxious thought he
had hardly heard his friend's question.

