The question was repeated and received an affirmative answer.

"We have a good long ride before us to get back to Banjoe Pahit,"
remarked Theodoor Grenits, "and to-morrow morning it will be light
very early, eh?"

"Certainly it will," replied Verstork; "but," continued he as he
looked at his watch, "we must not think of getting back to Banjoe
Pahit to-night. It is now quite nine o'clock, and, however brightly
the moon may be shining we cannot possibly go faster than at a walk,
so that we cannot expect to reach the Controller's quarters before
midnight. No, I shall write my official letters here at the tjarik's,
they can then be at once sent off by the Loerah. The Wedono will ride
back to Banjoe Pahit to get everything ready for to-morrow's work. He
has the command of all the beaters there, that has been all arranged
and settled and we need not trouble about that, even though we change
our quarters for the night."

"That is all very well," said August van Beneden, "but where shall
we find these quarters?"

"Well," rejoined Verstork, "we must do the best we can, 'à la guerre
comme à la guerre.' There is a small passangrahan here in the dessa
which is furnished with a single baleh baleh and we must ask the
Loerah to fit it up for us somehow or other."

"To fit it up?" cried Grenits in surprise; "have you an outfitting
store here in this out-of-the-way place?"

"No, no, my worthy disciple of Mercury," replied Verstork with a laugh,
"that kind of establishment would do but a very poor business here. If
we can lay our hands upon a few pillows and a couple of mattresses
we must think ourselves very lucky."

"A couple of mattresses for the seven of us," grumbled van Beneden
who was by no means unmindful of his bodily comforts, "that is but
a poor allowance I fear."

"For my part," said Verstork, "I am quite ready to give up my share. I
prefer the baleh baleh. It will not be the first time I have slept
on one; and slept very soundly too I can tell you. The others must
draw lots. But--"

