"But what?" asked van Rheijn.

"Someone just now spoke of seven," replied Verstork. "It seems to me
we are but six--Who is missing? The deuce! where is Mokesuep?"

"Yes," cried a couple of others, "where has Mokesuep got to?"

"He was off like a shot as soon as he heard the cry of Amokh," said
van Rheijn laughing. "I saw him when we turned for Kaligaweh riding
back full speed to Banjoe Pahit."

"Now, I call that prudence with a vengeance," remarked Grenits.

"Prudence! Is that the right word do you think?" asked one of the
others.

"I don't care," said van Rheijn, "I am heartily glad we have got rid
of the fellow, for the time, at all events. I say, Verstork, how in
the world did you manage to get hold of such a sneak as that?"

"Oh," replied Verstork, "I often find the fellow useful. He is
thoroughly up, you see, in all excise quibbles; and I think it best
to keep in with him. You can all understand that--can you not?"

"Well," said van Rheijn, "I wish he would be off altogether and go
right on to Santjoemeh."

"No," said Verstork, "I don't think he will do that."

"Wedono, will you see to it that Mr. Mokesuep is called early
to-morrow morning?"

"Yes, kandjeng toean," replied the native.

"And now, gentlemen," said Verstork, "I must leave you for half an
hour or so to the care of the Loerah, he will make you as comfortable
as he can--won't you, Loerah?"

"Yes, kandjeng toean," was the invariable reply.

A few minutes later the sportsmen had taken possession of the
passangrahan, while the Controller sat in the small verandah of the
tjarik's house busily writing his letters.








CHAPTER XV.

UNDER THE WARIENGIEN TREE. IN THE OPIUM-DEN.


The passangrahan did not turn out so very bad after all. The Loerah
had managed to get together six mattresses and, somewhere or other,
he had found six pillows also. Whether these things were clean or
not, the miserable flicker of the little oil-lamp which hung in the
middle of the apartment, did not reveal. The Loerah, however, had
surpassed himself--he had actually provided six chairs. Very crazy
and very tumble-down certainly they were; but they were not wholly
unfit for use, and in a dessa like Kaligaweh might be looked upon as
"objets de luxe."

