But nature, though so calm and placid, was by no means silent. The
air was full of sounds, the strange mysterious music of a tropical
night. A gentle breeze was rustling in the branches, and amidst the
countless leaves of the colossal wild fig-tree was thus forming, so
to speak, the groundwork of a concert produced by a host of invisible
artists. In spite of the late nightly hour, a wood-pigeon would now
and then come flying home into the crown of the Wariengien tree, and
be welcomed on its return by the soft cooing of its mate. Sometimes a
solitary cock would start up and, beguiled by the bright moonbeams,
would utter his shrill musical crow, fondly imagining, no doubt,
that he was heralding the dawn of day. Every moment was heard the
sharp, piercing squeak of the swarm of bats, which, in their hunt
for insects under the canopy of leaves, glided about in a giddy
maze of intersecting and intertwining circles, ovals, spirals and
ellipses. Sometimes again from afar came the dismal cry of the
flying dogs, as on soft inaudible wing they swooped down upon some
fruit-tree in the dessa and quarrelled for the possession of some
choice manga. But all these sounds, some musical, others harsh, might
be looked upon as the solo-parts in the nameless humming concert which
prevailed on all sides and of which the performers were invisible to
human eye. In that nightly hour, wherever the ear might turn it heard
a constant quivering and throbbing sound, sometimes rising to such a
pitch that it unpleasantly affected the ear, then again dying away
like the scarcely perceptible murmur of the breeze in a cornfield,
and then suddenly ceasing for a moment or two as if to allow the
rustling of the leaves to be heard for an instant; but only to join
in chorus again with renewed vigour as if wishing to drown all other
sounds. This was the chirping of millions upon millions of the greenish
orange kind of grasshopper, which perched on every blade of grass on
the aloon aloon, and hanging from every leaf of the immense tree,
caused that sharp thrilling mass of sound which at times made the
air literally quiver with its intensely sharp notes.

