Did the young men there assembled pay any heed to this mysterious
melody? Did they lend an ear to those notes which, in the tropics,
make the midnight hour more tuneful than the dull and heavy noon, when
the sun, in his full power, makes all nature thirsty and silent? Had
they an eye for that delicious night, with its soft breeze, its
glittering firmament, its quiet but glorious moonlight, its quaint and
pleasing shadows? It is doubtful whether they heard or saw anything
of all these. Indeed, they were wholly engrossed in conversation, and
that conversation most naturally ran upon the events of the day. The
dreadful scene of social misery at which they had been present was far
too powerful to be dismissed from their thoughts. That murder scene
was talked over and turned about, and looked at from every point of
view; but, the few hurried words with which Verstork, before he went
off to write his letters, had explained the matter to his friends, had
filled them, one and all, with the deepest pity for poor Setrosmito,
and for his family, in their bitter affliction.

Said Grashuis: "What untold misery does that detestable opium-policy
bring upon this, in other respects, so richly blessed island? Is it
not enough to make one hide one's head with shame at the thought that
a considerable portion of the Dutch revenue is derived from so foul
a source?"

"Tut, tut," interrupted van Beneden, "that foul source, as you call
it--I suppose you mean the opium-revenue--is in no way different from
any other tax levied on an article of luxury."

"Granted," replied Grashuis, "but, who made the inhabitants of the
Indian Archipelago acquainted with that luxury?"

"That's more than I can tell you," said the other. "I daresay it
is with opium very much as it is with drink; whence did we get
the products of distillation? Who first discovered them? I fancy
it would be no easy matter to find a satisfactory answer to those
questions. One thing, however, is quite certain, that the Dutch nation
is not responsible for the discovery of opium."

