"That's true enough," replied Grashuis, "but I hardly think that a
mere negative certificate of that kind will be accepted as a proof
of good conduct."

"No, certainly not," interrupted Grenits, "for our conscience,
though it is clear of the charge of having discovered the drug, by
no means acquits us of the more serious charge of having introduced
and imported it, and--"

"Come, that's all nonsense," cried van Rheijn, "that is a mere
assertion of yours, which will not stand the test of inquiry. If you
will look into Band's well-known 'Proeve,' there you will find that
the Orientals, such as the Turks, the Persians, the Arabians, and
the Hindoos, have been for many, for very many centuries, addicted
to the use of opium. It is, therefore, most probable that when the
Dutch first came to India, they found the habit of opium-smoking
already established."

"You are quite wrong, my worthy friend," cried Grenits, interrupting
him. "You are quite wrong, for this same Band, whose authority on
the subject I am as ready to admit as you are, expressly declares
that he has not been able to discover when opium began to be used in
Dutch India. Now, this confession is, in my opinion, most significant,
coming from so distinguished a statesman as Band. For, surely, if he
had been able to prove in his treatise on opium, that its use was
common when we first arrived there, he would, for the sake of our
national honour, not have concealed so important a fact, but, on the
contrary, have made the most of it. But I go further than this. Later
on in his book, Band goes on to say that when in the sixteenth century
Europeans first began to show themselves in Indian waters, the use of
opium was known only in the Moluccas, and that, as regards the rest of
the Archipelago, its abuse existed only among a very few foreigners,
who had settled down in the different sea-ports."

"Well," asked van Rheijn, "but must we not look upon that as the
expression of a mere private opinion? What do you say?" he continued,
turning to van Nerekool. "Band, you see, was an opponent of the use
of opium."

