Van Nerekool was, however, wholly engrossed in his own thoughts,
and made no reply to the question. He seemed, indeed, not to have
heard it at all.

Grenits, however, at once broke in and said:

"What? Band an opponent of opium? Where in the world did you get that
from? Certainly not out of his book, which throughout is written in
a spirit of the strictest impartiality. He cannot help mentioning
the deleterious effect of the poppy-juice; but he does so with the
utmost caution, and I defy anyone to discover in his treatise the
merest hint at a scheme, or even at a proposal for counteracting its
abuse. Just now you called Band's opinion a personal one. Well, so
far as the introduction of opium is concerned, no doubt that opinion
is personal; but, it is an opinion which has been confirmed by the
testimony of a host of distinguished travellers of his day. Read, for
instance, the voyages of such men as van Sinschoten, Cornelis Houtman,
Wijbrandt, van Warwijck, and so many others, all countrymen of ours,
and illustrious men of our heroic age, and you will find that Band
does not, by any means, stand alone in his opinion."

"I say," cried van Rheijn, not too civilly, "where the devil does a
merchant like you get all that information from?"

The discussion was, in fact, arousing some of that jealous feeling
which everywhere exists between the official and the mercantile
classes; but which is stronger, perhaps, in Dutch India than elsewhere.

Grenits replied very quietly, "It is precisely in my capacity of
merchant that I have found it necessary to study, not only all the
products of the Archipelago, but to gain all possible information
also about the imported articles of commerce which are likely to
produce the greatest profits."

"That is exactly what opium does," remarked van Rheijn, "and, for
that reason, I presume that the trade would like to get it into its
own hands."

"What the trade may like or may not like," replied Grenits very
coolly, "I neither know nor care. As far as I myself am concerned,
I would not, if I could, derive any profits from so foul a source;
and I feel quite certain that many, very many men in my position are
of the same opinion. As a proof of the truth of my words, I point
to the fact that, as far as I know, no European firm has ever made
a bid for the opium monopoly."

