"Indeed," said van Rheijn, sarcastically, "and how then about the
Netherland's Handelmaatshappij?"

"The Handelmaatshappij" replied Grenits, "is a very recent offshoot
of the East India Company of unblessed memory, and is entirely
identified with the government. It is, as a matter of fact, nothing
more than the shopman in the government's grocery store. The opium
monopoly is carried on by the State, and it is, therefore, no wonder
that the 'Companie ketjil' (Javanese name for the Handelmaatshappij)
did undertake the supplying of opium. But this European Company did
not long occupy the honourable position of opium-farmer. According
to Band, the government did not make sufficiently large profits out
of the monopoly, and it was therefore decided to put it into Chinese
hands. These Chinamen knew how to carry on the abominable traffic,
and have brought it to the highest degree of development. Looking
at the question from another point of view, and considering the
names of the men who at that time were members and directors of the
Handelmaatshappij, I cannot help thinking that men so illustrious were
not at all sorry to see so dirty a source of profit closed to them."

"What are you talking about!" exclaimed van Rheijn, "with your 'dirty
source of profit?' Does not the Company trade in gin? Does not your own
firm deal in alcohol? And you, when you get to be head of a firm, will
you give up all trade in spirits, and all the profits it brings in?"

"Oh," cried Grenits, "now I see! you are one of those many men who
place abuse of opium on the same line with abuse of strong drink. But,
mark what I say, all those who, whether here or in Holland, argue
thus, are doing infinitely more mischief than they are aware of. Some
few of them, no doubt, know the real merits of the case, and are
perfectly competent, therefore, to measure the mischief they are
doing. All such men are actuated by personal motives; they have a
certain object in view, it may be of advantage or of ambition. But
by far the greater number speak thus merely to please, merely to
gain the approbation of their hearers. The good people in Holland
like to listen to such arguments. They are pleased when they hear men
who have been in India, and therefore, of course, know all about it,
say, with an air of easy superiority: 'Oh, that opium is not so very
great an evil after all. All over the world, man sometimes needs a
little stimulant. Just look at our good Mr. Pastor, he surely has the
welfare of his flock at heart, yet he does not grudge a man a modest
glass or two of gin. Let us follow that spiritual example, and let us
not grudge the poor Javanese his opium-pipe. Opium and gin, why they
come to very much the same thing in the end!' Yes, to such arguments
men open their ears willingly enough; for, though the opium monopoly
may be a dirty source of revenue, yet it does bring in lots of money;
and men are only too pleased to hear, that after all they have been
needlessly disquieting themselves, and that there is really no need
of putting an end to so considerable a source of gain."

