"Well, my good friend Grenits, you must pardon me for saying so; but
I also am one of those who not only silently approve of the argument,
but who are prepared openly and loudly to maintain that gin and opium,
inasmuch as they are both intoxicants, stand on precisely the same
level. I maintain that the abuse of either is injurious, and that
the one does not much more harm than the other."

It was August van Beneden who thus came to the rescue of van
Rheijn. The latter looked round triumphantly, as he exclaimed:

"Hear, hear! You see, gentlemen, I am not the only one who holds
those views. Bravo, August!"

"Of course," said Grenits, quickly, "you are quite right in saying
that spirituous liquors are injurious for--"

"I say, Grenits," cried Grashuis, with a laugh, "mind the members of
your club at the Hague don't hear that."

"For," continued Grenits, without paying any heed to the interruption,
"for the abuse of spirits also arises from a craving after pleasure
and oblivion and proves a want of will-power to resist that craving,
even when its satisfaction is purchased at the price of self-respect,
domestic happiness and health. To deny that, would be to prove myself
ignorant of the labours of Father Matthew, and so many other friends of
total abstinence. But, you will pardon me if I adhere to the opinion I
have already expressed, that in thus placing the abuse of opium on the
same level with the abuse of alcohol shows an ignorance of established
facts and an ignorance also of the literature of our colonies with
regard to opium. For, remember, my friends, our own countrymen,
such men as van Linschoten, Valentijn, Band, van Dedem and I do not
know how many more stigmatise opium as an aphrodisiac--as a powerful
means of exciting unclean passions. Van Linschoten in the account of
his travels, plainly speaks of certain effects of the abuse of opium
which, though we are men together here, I could not venture to repeat;
and foreign travellers most fully confirm his testimony. The learned
Chinaman Li Schi Ischin in his Chinese Pharmacopoeia, which was
written as early as 1596, tells us that the common people in China,
made use of opium chiefly as an aphrodisiac. The German traveller
Miklucho-Maclay in 1873, after he had made personal experiments
at Hong Kong in opium smoking, has noted down certain details with
which I cannot bring myself to pollute your ears. Now all this ought,
I think, to give us much food for reflection. And when we find men
like Rochussen, Loudon, Hasselman, van Bosse, and many others, who,
the one as Governor General, and the other as Colonial Secretary,
some of them in both capacities, have stood up in their place in
parliament, and have openly spoken of opium as an evil, as a most
terrible evil, indeed as a poison and a pest, why then, I think,
it will not be very difficult to come to the conclusion, that the
effects and the consequences of the abuse of opium are of a different
nature altogether, and are infinitely more fatal than those which
result from the abuse of alcohol."

