"Would you not like," said van Beneden, "just merely for the sake of
experiment, to try opium smoking? I, for myself, very much wish to
know what its effects really are."

"So would I," said van Rheijn, "and we could make the experiment
easily enough."

"How so?" asked Grashuis. "For us Europeans, opium is not easy to
get, and surely we could not go to the opium den and smoke there,
and make ourselves a laughing-stock of the people."

"No, we could hardly do that," said van Rheijn; "but among my
acquaintances, I count one Lim Ho the son of the great opium-farmer. I
know, if I ask him, he will procure me a few madat balls."

"Contraband, I suppose," said Grenits, with a laugh.

"You know those opium farmers are the greatest smugglers!"

"What does that matter?" said van Rheijn. "Opium is opium I suppose;
I shall, no doubt, be able to get a pipe, and as soon as I have
got the things, I will let you know, and then we shall meet at my
house. We shall draw lots, and the one upon whom the lot falls,
shall submit himself to the experiment, while the others look on,
and make notes. Is that a bargain?"

"Aye, aye!" they all cried, all except van Nerekool, who was still
abstracted, and deeply plunged in his own thoughts.

"Meanwhile," continued van Rheijn, "I feel bound in fairness to
confess that our friend Grenits has defended his position in a most
masterly way. Indeed I must say that I had not expected to find
so much knowledge in matters concerning the opium monopoly, in a
commercial man."

Grenits merely smiled, it was a bitter smile; but he was too much
accustomed to such remarks from members of the official corps to take
offence at them.

"But," continued van Rheijn, "with all his arguments, he will never
persuade me that opium is a cause of greater misery, and that opium
is a greater curse to a country than strong drink."

While this discussion had been going on, Verstork had written his
reports and had sent them off to the authorities at Santjoemeh, and
he had got back to the passangrahan in time to hear Grenits speak of
the evils of opium smoking. He also heard his friend van Rheijn make
his last assertion. He thereupon at once put in his word.

