"Well, gentlemen," said he, "we have just now the fairest possible
opportunity of satisfying ourselves as to the truth of Mr. Grenits'
argument. The opportunity is, in fact, too good to be neglected. You
are here in one of the most wretched of all dessas which are the
victims of the opium-monopoly. It is not very long ago that this
same Kaligaweh was remarkable as one of the cleanest, neatest, and
most prosperous of all our Javanese villages. Now, look round about
you. Everything is neglected, and is falling into decay. The huts are,
almost all, tumbling to ruin--the roads, which lead to the dessa, and
which run through it, are mere pools of mud, and of the well-trimmed
and beautiful hedges, which once separated these roads from the
fields, not a vestige now remains. It is hardly ten o'clock as yet,
and the opium-den is not yet closed. The inhabitants, moreover, are
in a state of excitement owing to that murder, and are also disturbed
by the presence of so many European gentlemen. They are, therefore,
wide awake. In the opium-den you will be able to feast your eyes,
and satisfy your curiosity."

At the proposal all the young men had jumped to their feet--all but
van Nerekool who, with his head still resting on his hand, seemed
unconscious of what was going on around him.

"Come, Charles," said Verstork, laying his hand on his friend's
shoulder, "come, Charles, you will come along with us, won't you?"

The young lawyer started as if awakened out of a dream.

"Where are you going to?" asked he, with so genuine an air of surprise,
as made it evident that he had not heard one word of what was going
on around him.

Said Verstork, "We are off to the opium-den."

"To the opium-den!" cried van Nerekool, in a tone of alarm, "to the
opium-den, surely you are not going--"

"To smoke," said Verstork. "No, no, my friend, you need not be alarmed,
we are only going to have a look. But," continued he, "gentlemen,
you must make up your minds to see some very unpleasant sights, for,
I think, to-night the den happens to be very full.

