"But, wait a bit, if you intend really to gain some insight into
these opium matters, we must--"

And, turning to one of the policemen who was always in attendance,
he said:

"Sariman, run and call the two Chinamen of the opium-store--tell them
I want to speak to them, at once."

"Very well, kandjeng toean."

"One moment, gentlemen! Otherwise you would miss the most interesting
part of the show."

They had but a very short time to wait, for the two Chinamen came
running up as soon as they received the message:

"Come, quick, quick, the noble noble lord calls you!"

When the Chinamen reached the group, Verstork said to his friends:

"Now, then, gentlemen, let us go."

"But," said one of the Chinamen, in a somewhat insolent tone of voice,
when he saw that his presence was wholly ignored, "But you sent for
us, sir."

"Hold your tongue, babah," said Verstork, briefly; "we are going to
pay a visit to your opium-den. You come along with us."

"To the opium-den!" cried the babah, "then I will go, and--"

"You stay here with me; both of you," said the Controller in a tone
of authority which they dared not disobey.

The two Celestials interchanged looks; but they did not utter one word,
and silently followed the gentlemen.

The opium-den at Kaligaweh lay behind the chapel at the eastern
extremity of the aloon aloon. The visitors, therefore, had but a couple
of hundred yards to walk before they reached that noble establishment
licensed by the Dutch rulers of the soil.

No, certainly, it was not a proud building, raising its head
majestically, in the glorious consciousness of being one of the many
suckers which replenish the Dutch exchequer. Not at all. Its outward
appearance would not lead anyone to suspect that it was one of the
conduits of the great opium monopoly--that fearful force--that section
pump, which pours millions upon millions into the treasury.

No, a thousand times, no! It was a squalid, filthy little bamboo
building, which looked like an old tumble-down barn or shed. The
walls were partially rotten by long neglect, and gave out the peculiar
musty smell of decaying bamboo. The roof, bulging in here and there,
threatened to fall in upon the heads of the visitors within. The entire
structure was a picture of decay and desolation, and the inside of
the den completely corresponded with its pitiful exterior. The space
within those mouldy walls and that half-rotten roof was extremely
low, and the damp atmosphere was not only stuffy and close, but was
permeated with the offensive sickly sweetish smell which is the
invariable and unmistakable characteristic of burning opium. The
floor of the den was the bare ground and the soil had not even been
levelled and beaten down as is the case in almost all Javanese cabins;
but was most uneven, great black lumps sticking up all over it which
the bare feet of the Javanese and the hard soles of the Chinamen had
polished till they looked shining as marble.

