Here and there, the smoky gleam of a dirty petroleum lamp revealed a
wet patch or a little pool of greenish brown water of most suspicious
appearance which affected most unpleasantly the organs both of sight
and smell.

As the gentlemen were about to enter the low door of the den, one
of the Chinamen tried to utter a note of warning; but Verstork, who
was keeping an eye on him, would not let him utter a sound and in a
threatening tone of voice whispered to him:

"Be quiet, babah."

When the visitors had entered they found themselves in a small square
apartment at the end of which was a partition with two doors and a
small opening.

"That door," said the Controller, who acted as guide, pointing to one
of them, "opens into a little room in which one of the storekeepers
generally sits, and through that little square opening hands to the
customers bits of red paper covered with Chinese characters. The
buyers of opium have to pay ready money for one of these tickets
which represents a greater or smaller quantity of tjandoe according
to the price paid. With that bit of paper the purchaser then vanishes
through that other door."

"What a beastly hole, to be sure!" remarked Grenits.

"Oh!" replied Verstork, "this is only the anteroom. Wait until you
get inside and then you will see something much better than this."

Thus speaking he pushed open the second bamboo door which did not
turn on hinges but was fastened to the door-post with loops and ran
squeaking and scraping along a bit of smooth wood. This door gave
access to a narrow passage which would have been in total darkness
but for the hazy light of a few wretched oil-wicks which could only
just be seen glimmering, through the chinks of the bamboo partition
on either side. In this passage the atmosphere was still more stuffy
and the nasty smell of the madat still more nauseous. The floor of
the passage was so uneven, so slippery and so indescribably filthy,
that it required the greatest care to keep on one's legs at all,
and to prevent oneself from slipping down full length into the soapy
mud. This passage ran down the centre of the barn and on either side
of it were rows of pens twelve in number, the entire barn being thus
divided into twenty-four partitions. The partition walls did not
exceed four or five feet in height, so that from one pen one could
easily look into another. These compartments had each a door which
opened upon the passage in which the European visitors were standing.

