"May we open one of these doors?" asked van Beneden, as he stretched
out his hand to one of them.

"You may not, sir!" cried one of the Chinamen who, having noticed
the gesture, understood the meaning of the question.

"Hold you tongue, will you!" said Verstork, in a loud tone of
voice. "You be off, out of the place altogether."

And after the Chinaman had disappeared, he turned to his friends, and
said: "I do not think you will care to go into those filthy holes. We
can see well enough what is going on inside through the chinks in the
partitions and doors, indeed, I believe, we shall thus see more than
if we were to enter."

"Look," continued he, "there you have a smoker in the first stage
of intoxication."

Yes! there, on the baleh baleh, lay a Javanese. There he lay on the
only article of furniture which the den could boast of, stretched out
full length, and half reclining on his side. He had thrown off his
head-cloth, and his Long black hair floated over the disgustingly
filthy pillow on the bench. His eyes, which betrayed his ecstatic
condition, were half closed, and every now and then, he brought
with his right hand the bowl of his opium pipe to the tiny flame
which was flickering on a bit of wick dipping in a little saucer
of oil. As he did so his head, partly supported on his left hand,
would be slightly bent forward, as he took the thick bamboo stem of
the pipe between his lips. Then, very slowly, he inhaled the smoke of
the kindling opium. After a few puffs, he put down the pipe and turned
over on his back, his head thrown back upon the pillow. The smoker now
closed his eyes entirely, and strained with might and main to swallow
the smoke he had inhaled. As soon as he had succeeded in doing this,
he lay quite still while a look of satisfaction and enjoyment passed
over his countenance. That look of satisfaction, however, offered
the strangest contrast with the whole exterior appearance of the man,
even with the features on which it appeared. Before lying down on the
baleh baleh, he had flung aside his vest, and now lay covered only
by his shirt which was the filthiest and most loathsome rag imaginable.

