The man was as lean as a skeleton, and would have been admirably fitted
to take his place at the Danse Macabre. The faint light of the little
palita showed every rib in his body, and the dark shadows which they
cast, showed how deep were the cavities between that trellis work
of bone. His arms were like sticks encased in brown leather-like
skin. His legs were not visible, being covered by the sarong; but
the appearance of the feet, which protruded from under the garment,
proved that like the arms the legs also were nothing but skin and
bone. When the man had, for awhile, held the smoke which he had
swallowed, he blew it out again very slowly through his nostrils,
a proceeding which it took some time to accomplish--then he turned
over on his side and appeared to fall into a deep sleep. At that
sight a female form, which had been crouching in one corner of the
compartment, and had thus remained unnoticed, rose up and made for
the door. The poor creature had been present there all the time--In
her haste to leave the wretched little apartment, she nearly ran up
against the European gentlemen.

"Oh, heavens! the devil!" she cried; but, in the darkness, she could
not recognise anyone, and so she hurried into a neighbouring recess.

In that recess, the spectacle was more horrifying still. There,
stretched out on the baleh baleh, lay an old Javanese. He was as
angular, as emaciated, and as much wasted away, as the other man;
but he was in another stage of intoxication. He had smoked more than
one madat ball, hence he was in a different state of ecstasy. His
hollow, sunken eyes glittered with unwonted fire; his breast heaved,
and his face wore a bestial grin, the lower jaw protruding far beyond
the upper stamping the features with the mark of the brutal passions
which were raging within. The upper part of his body also was bare,
but the violence of the passions which possessed him caused his entire
frame to heave and quiver, and had made him cast aside even his sarong,
so that now he lay there in the state in which the patriarch Noah
was discovered by his sons.

