"And can we do nothing? Come, Verstork, you as Controller--"

But Verstork restrained his companions who were preparing once again
to rush into the den.

"I shall take good care," said he, "not to meddle in any opium
matters. They, at Batavia, would very soon find me wholly unfit to
hold any government appointment and, however revolting a deed may
be, I should find no support in van Gulpendam my superior officer at
Santjoemeh. My whole career would be ruined--No, my friends, I must
let things take their course."

"But," cried Grenits, "I am not bound by any such considerations--I
will--"

"You will keep quiet I hope," said Verstork to his friend who was
trying to make his way once again into the opium den. "Remember that
I am in your company, and that even if you went in there quite alone
you would still compromise me by your rash and foolish action. I beg
you therefore--Here! you see the child is coming out."

As Verstork spoke a little Javanese girl hardly ten years of age came
rushing out of the loathsome den, she sobbed and moaned as she ran
past the European gentlemen.

"Oh this is fearful--this is fearful," cried Grenits, "and then to
have to stand still while such horrors are going on! I should like
to--But--" continued he as he turned to van Beneden, "will you still
maintain that opium is in its effects to be compared to drink."

August van Beneden did not reply; but the deepest indignation was
visible in his countenance.

"Come," said Verstork, as he tried to calm his friend, "let us
not remain standing here, men, women and children are beginning to
crowd round."

"Those people," cried Grenits, "were just now looking on at those
filthy scenes through the chinks of the bamboo walls."

"And," said van Beneden, "the opium farmers did not try to prevent
them, but seemed on the contrary to encourage them. I could see it
all plainly enough."

"Come," said Verstork again, "let us be off. Let us go and sit down
again under the Wariengien tree. Oppas," continued he to one of the
policemen who always kept near him, "you go and tell these dessa
people that they are to go home--it is time for all to go to sleep."

