






CHAPTER XVI.

THE OPIUM-MONOPOLY. A QUIET CHAT.


The people of Kaligaweh were quiet folk, and did as they were
told. Very soon the dessa had resumed its ordinary peaceful appearance,
and the little group of European gentlemen were once again seated
under the widely-spreading crown of the gigantic wild-fig tree. But
if, a short time ago, they had paid but very little attention to the
wondrous beauties of the tropical night, their visit to the opium-den
made them still more indifferent to its attractions. As soon as they
were again seated, the conversation, naturally enough, turned upon
the terrible scenes which they had witnessed.

"In that passage," said Grashuis, who, as surveyor, was accustomed
to take in local details at a glance, "there were twenty-four doors
and therefore there must be twenty-four such hideous pens. If all of
them--What a pity it is that we allowed ourselves to be scared and
that we did not carry out our investigation to the end."

"No, no, my friend," said Verstork, "I am glad we did not. Almost
all the recesses were occupied, and the scenes which they would have
revealed would have differed only from those you saw in the degree
of beastliness. I repeat it--it is much better that we did not go
on. But, when I tell you that in the dessa Kaligaweh there are some
eighty households which number about six hundred souls, one hundred
and thirty of which are able-bodied working men, and that such a den
as we visited remains open for three-quarters of the four-and-twenty
hours--And when I further tell you that if you had looked into the
wretched huts all around you would have found many an opium-smoker
in them also--then, I think you will be able to form some idea of
the extent which the abuse of opium has attained."

"Do you happen to know," asked Grashuis, who was fond of statistics,
"what percentage of the inhabitants is given to this abuse of opium?"

"Well," returned the other, "I do not think we shall do much good
by troubling ourselves about figures which are generally misleading
and only serve to prove how clever statisticians are in the art de
grouper les chiffres."

