"Yes," said Grenits, "and we know full well that treasury officials
have very little scruples on such points."

"It is a blessing that Muizenkop does not hear you say that," said van
Rheijn, with a laugh, "you would see him fire up at such a suggestion."

"With regard to Kaligaweh," continued Verstork, "I venture most
confidently to assert that there are not ten men in the dessa who
are free from the vice of opium smoking."

"Humph," muttered van Beneden, who, though a lawyer, was also fond
of figures, "that is about 93 per cent."

"I found that out," continued the controller, "when, about a
twelvemonth ago I was on the look-out for a man to put into the place
of my former loerah; a good fellow enough, but one whom the opium-pipe
had rendered totally unfit for any position of trust."

"Did you succeed?" asked Grenits.

"Yes, I did; but not without much difficulty. It was my intention to
appoint Setrosmito, the poor devil who just now has got himself into
trouble, and it was only because the man could neither read nor write
that I had to give up the idea. The inquiries, however, which I then
was forced to make, revealed to me the startling fact that women,
and even children of eight or nine years of age use opium. They
actually scrape out the father's pipe in order to get hold of the
fatal narcotic."

"But," remarked van Beneden, "Kaligaweh probably forms an exception."

"Not by any means," rejoined Verstork, testily; "during my official
career I have been stationed in several residencies, and I venture to
affirm that, as far as opium is concerned, their condition is much
the same as that in Santjoemeh. You will find hundreds of dessas in
the island like Kaligaweh."

"I suppose," put in Grenits, "we must except the Preanger districts?"

"Oh yes, certainly," assented Verstork, "the use of opium is altogether
forbidden there."

"And does that work well?"

"Excellently," said Verstork.

"That is, I have no doubt," asked Grashuis, "a tentative measure on
the part of the Government which, if it succeeds, will be extended
to the whole of Java?"

