"Not at all," replied Verstork. "In the first place the prohibition
has been in force too long to be merely tentative for it dates back
as far as 1824; and then, in the next, it was not at all adopted with
the view of checking the abuse of opium; but merely because it was
feared that the people would take to coffee-stealing in order to be
able to satisfy their craving."

"Come," said van Rheijn, "that is not at all a bad idea."

"Is it possible," exclaimed Grashuis, "to conceive a more cynical
confession of the fact that opium demoralises the people?"

"And if," continued Grenits, "you add that confession to the scenes
which we have just witnessed, then put the question seriously to
yourselves: is there any truth in the assertion made by van Rheijn
and backed up by van Beneden, that the abuse of opium can in any way
be compared to the abuse of alcohol, or put on the same level with
it? No, no, in my opinion, it is infinitely more deplorable!"

"Such is my opinion also," assented Verstork; "every attempt made to
put down or to limit the extent of opium-smoking and to check its
abuse, must be looked upon as an act of much greater philanthropy
than the efforts made by the friends of temperance or the preachers
of total abstinence. But--"

"Yes--but what?" cried another.

"But," continued he, "every such attempt is a direct blow aimed at
the revenue at home."

"Aye, aye, there you have it," said Grenits; "and whenever you raise
such a question as that, our good friends at the Hague are uncommonly
hard of hearing."

"Well, I don't blame them," interrupted van Rheijn, "they cannot
afford to sacrifice the millions which the opium trade pours into
the treasury."

"God help us!" cried Grenits, "did ever man hear such an argument as
that? What would you say to a thief who would try to excuse his theft
by saying that he was in need of the stolen money to go and fuddle
himself in a beershop; or to a murderer who would try and justify his
crime by stating that he poisoned his uncle only because he wanted
the inheritance to--to--well, say to keep his mistress?"

