"Oh, oh, oh!" cried several voices, "what a comparison!"

"Yes," said Verstork, "the comparison is certainly not flattering;
but it has the advantage of being a perfectly just one. So long as
our country indulges in the costly luxury of an administration such
as ours; and so long as it maintains the opium trade in its present
state to furnish funds for that costly administration: such proceeding
may very justly be compared to the action of a thief who steals a
banknote in order to go and spend it in a gin-palace."

"Or rather," cried Grenits, "to that of a man who poisons his uncle
so that he may have the handling of his money. I consider the latter
comparison to be a still more just one; because it cannot be denied
that though Holland has always treated her Indian possessions as a
milch-cow, the present system of scraping and squeezing is beginning
to exceed all reasonable bounds and limits."

"Oh! oh!" again cried van Rheijn and van Beneden as in protest.

"Well gentlemen," asked Grenits, "am I exaggerating? Tell me now,
are they not, at home, exceeding all limits and bounds in the heavy
taxation which they heap on the shoulders of the industrial and
commercial classes?"

"Aye, but," remarked van Beneden, "you must remember that in Holland
people have to pay taxes as well as out here."

"If you will take the trouble to look into the matter," said Grenits,
"you will find that they do not pay anything like what the people
have to pay here. Then again, I ask, do they not exceed all bounds
and limits in increasing the burdens, already too heavy, which the
poor native population has to bear?"

"I quite agree with you there," said Verstork.

"Do they not," continued Grenits, "exceed all limits in the pitiful
and niggardly way in which they treat their soldiers out here?"

"How so?" asked van Rheijn.

"Why, to give you but one instance, by loudly declaring that there
is peace at Atjeh--a peace which has no real existence whatever--and
thereby robbing the poor soldiers and doing them clean out of their
already too meagre pay?"

