"Oh, what need we bother ourselves about those soldier fellows!" cried
van Rheijn.

"Do they not again," continued Grenits, "overpass all reasonable
limits, by encouraging and fostering the abuse of opium?"

"Now, that is too bad," cried van Beneden, "now you are going too far;
that accusation of yours is not a fair one."

"You think so, do you?" said Grenits. "Well then just take Band's book
in hand. There you will find proof absolute of the fact that it is,
and has always been, the policy at the Hague to encourage and to foster
the opium-trade as much as possible. Figures are stubborn things--just
listen to what they have to say. In 1832, the opium revenue amounted
to three millions, in 1842 it rose to very nearly seven millions. In
1870 it was quite ten millions, in 1880 it amounted to thirteen
millions. In 1885 that same revenue rose to nineteen millions; and new,
in 1886, it is estimated at quite twenty one millions, and our House
of Representatives has accepted that estimate without the slightest
demur, and without one word of protest. Of course, every now and then,
there is a great moan made in political and in other circles at home,
and a great deal is said about the iniquities of the opium trade;
but, for all that, the authorities have their hands perfectly free
and are encouraged by all parties to squeeze out of that trade as
much as it can be made to yield."

"But, excuse me," asked van Rheijn, "is it not one of the first duties
of every government to make an impost as productive as possible?"

"Certainly it is,--and it is precisely therein that lies the immorality
and the demoralizing tendency of the opium-monopoly. You see, in
order to enable the farmers to increase their bids, the abuse of the
drug must be encouraged. Thus the poor natives are driven, we may
say, into the opium-den by any and by every means--the most illegal
and the dirtiest means seem to have the preference. Just read our
local papers, and then you will be edified, I think, at the infamous
annoyance which the Chinese opium-factors are empowered to inflict
upon the non-consumers, and at the unlimited control they are allowed
to exercise, always in the most shameless and arbitrary fashion,
over any poor wretch who, seeing, it may be, the error of his ways,
tries to diminish his daily consumption."

