"Or provide himself with smuggled opium," remarked van Rheijn,
interrupting him.

Grenits, however, paid no heed to the remark, and went on: "The
opium-monopoly was originally established with the very laudable
object of raising the price of the article and of thus leaving it
within the reach of as few people as possible. On that principle,
therefore, every regulation must be condemned which tends to augment
the revenue by increasing, the sale. But, at present, our Colonial
Secretary relies upon the system as a regular means of increasing the
revenue. When we have such facts as these before us, facts which can be
proved to demonstration, then we feel ourselves driven to pronounce
this judgment: 'Our government and our representatives are fully
convinced of the terrible and fatal effects of the abuse of opium by
their Indian subjects; but they will not consent to forego the profit
which they obtain by the wholesale poisoning of an entire population.'"

"Come, come, poisoning! That is a rather strong word!" cried van
Beneden.

"Yes," continued Grenits, very quietly, "I said poisoning--that was
my word. If in Holland an apothecary does not keep his opium in the
proper poison chest, or if he is detected in selling it without the
proper order from a medical man, he is fined--very heavily fined. Am
I not right, van Nerekool?"

Thus addressed van Nerekool raised his head, looked up vacantly for
a moment or two and gave an affirmative nod; it seemed very doubtful
whether he had understood the question at all. Grenits, however,
accepted that nod as a gesture of assent, and continued:

"Yet that same poison may here be procured without the slightest
difficulty, nay more than that, is actually forced upon the poor
people in the most shameless manner by the Chinese scoundrels who
keep the opium dens. And that goes on under the eyes, and with the
full cognizance, sanction, and under the protection of the Dutch
Government."

"You are growing tiresome," sneered van Rheijn, "you keep on harping on
that one string--the Dutch Government--The fact is, my dear fellow,
you are tarred with the self-same brush of discontent as all the
manufacturers and merchants out here in India."

