"Why should I not be?" cried Grenits passionately. "I do not always
agree with all their opinions; but yet I do form a part of that
important commercial body; and when a question arises which effects
the vital interests of industry and commerce--Well, yes, then you
may say that I am tarred with the same brush."

"But have these grumblers really so very much to complain of?" asked
Grashuis in a bantering tone of voice.

"I should think they have," replied Grenits. "Under our present
system we are not only flayed; but we are sucked dry, in a manner
which, elsewhere, would drive men to open rebellion. When the Dutch
revolted against Spain, and when the Belgians rose up in arms against
the Dutch, neither of them had anything like so much to complain of as
we have here,--neither of them suffered anything like the extortion
which the Indo-Europeans have to put up with at the hands of their
present oppressors."

"Oh, oh, oh!" cried several voices.

"We have now to pay duties and taxes compared to which the tithes at
which our ancestors rebelled were the merest child's play. And then,
in return, what rights do we enjoy?--If one could, on so serious a
subject, be capable of indulging in a sorry joke--I might say that we
have the privilege only of having absolutely no rights at all. For,
that which here in India goes by the name of law and justice, is in
reality nothing more than the merest burlesque; and that is especially
true in all matters which concern the revenue. Wherever there is a
little money to be made, the State flings itself upon its victims
as some ravenous beast leaps upon its prey, and then one may look
in vain for the smallest protection--least of all in any case which
concerns that imperium in imperio the terrible opium monopoly!"

"You are exaggerating, you are talking wildly!" cried van Rheijn.

"I wish I were," continued Grenits; "but just take up that terrible
book 'Might versus Right,' a book written by a member of the High Court
of Justice at Batavia, who was formerly, for many years, Attorney
General in that same court, and for half an ordinary lifetime was
president of the Residential Council. A man, therefore, who ought to
know, and who does know what he is talking about, and then--when you
have read what he has to say--tell me if I am exaggerating."

