"Well," said van Rheijn, "all that is not so very formidable after
all. In case matters came to the worst, the army would know how to
do its duty."

"Its duty!" cried Grenits. "That sounds well from you who just now were
the first to scoff at those 'soldier fellows'. But I ask you this one
question:--Has the Government any right whatever to reckon upon the
fulfilment of that duty? Has it not neglected, in the most shameful
manner, its duty towards that army? I will allow--I am indeed fully
persuaded--that in spite of any treatment the officers would stick
to their duty, and would do it strictly and honourably. But--! can
one expect as much from all the foreigners, which have been shipped
out hither? Why, even now in Atjeh, they are deserting to the enemy
with bag and baggage, with arms and ammunition--and, in the case
I was supposing, they would go over in entire companies. Can one
look for any sense of duty in these poor wretched native soldiers,
who have almost to a man, by the most shameful means--by opium, by
gambling, by the allurements of the vilest women--been pressed into
the service. No, no, pray don't go on deceiving yourselves."

"There!" cried van Rheijn, "now you are simply talking treason--your
language is seditious."

"Treason, do you call it?" cried Grenits, passionately. "When I do
nothing more than lay my finger upon the wound?"

"Gentlemen," said Verstork interposing, "methinks it is high time
to close this discussion. Such topics are very apt to make men hot,
and--moreover, why, it is just past midnight. We must go and get some
rest, for to-morrow we must be up by day-break and we have a very
fatiguing day before us. The Djoerang Pringapoes which you visited
with me this evening, is no ball-room let me tell you--you will find
that out to-morrow. Come, let us all turn in and get some sleep!"

At these words all, except van Nerekool, rose and prepared to retire.

"I am very glad," said Grashuis, "that old Muizenkop was not present at
this conversation. Had he been here, by to-morrow evening the Resident
would have known all about it, chapter and verse, with no doubt the
necessary additions and flourishes. And then, my good friend Grenits,
you would have had a 'mauvais quart d'heure.' Who knows, they might
have packed you off to Atapoepoe or to Tomini Bay; perhaps they
might have kicked you out of the island altogether. Remember poor
lawyer Winckel!"

