Grenits shrugged his shoulders disdainfully.

"Are you coming to bed?" asked Verstork as he walked up to van Nerekool
who was still seated with his head resting on his hand outside the
hut which the others had already entered.

Van Nerekool made no reply, he merely looked up and stared into the
face of his friend with a strange dazed expression.

"What in the world is the matter with you, old fellow?" said Verstork
as he laid his hand on his shoulder and sat down by the side of his
friend. "You have been so silent and so absent all day, you must be
ill I fear!"

"No, William, I am not ill, but I feel so very--so very wretched."

"Wretched!" said Verstork, "come now, tell us all about it, there's
a good fellow, let me bear some part of your sorrow!"

"Ah!" sighed van Nerekool, "I can tell you nothing--nothing that
you could share with me. William, my dear friend, you recollect our
conversation of last Saturday night at Santjoemeh?"

"Every word of it," replied Verstork. "I then told you that in one
week's time I would give you my reasons why I considered your love
affair with Miss van Gulpendam a very sad business. That week is up
to-day--is it not?"

"Yes, my friend," said van Nerekool very sadly. "But you can tell me
nothing now. During the last week many things have happened. I suppose
that even on Saturday last you knew that Resident van Gulpendam was
not at all well disposed towards me?"

To that question Verstork gave no direct reply; but he insisted upon
being told all that had taken place.

"Come," said he, "come, Charles, tell me all about it. You know
perfectly well that you have in me a true friend. Let us hear all
about it."

"But," replied van Nerekool, "you want rest. You ought to go to
sleep. To-morrow you have a hard day before you."

"Oh!" said Verstork, lightly, "never mind about that. I have often
enough gone the rounds of the government coffee-plantations, and have
passed many a sleepless night in the dessas with quite as hard a day
in prospect as to-morrow is likely to be. I can very easily afford
an old friend like you an hour or so of sleep. Do pray speak out."

