Charles van Nerekool hesitated no longer. He felt indeed in great need
of sympathy; and wanted, above all things, to pour out his heart to
his friend. He began his story therefore, by telling him how, on the
occasion of the State-ball, he had declared his love to Anna.

In the most vivid colours he described to his friend that happy moment
in which, carried away by the excitement of the dance and the glorious
tones of Weber's waltz, he had allowed the long-treasured secret of
his heart to escape from him; and his rapture when the girl, whom he
so dearly loved, had uttered the one little word which assured him
that she returned his affection. He told him of that sacred moment
when their lips first met in the garden.


"Oscula qui sumpsit, si non et caetera sumpsit
Haec quoque quae data sunt, perdere dignus erat."


muttered Verstork to himself. He, in his youth, had studied the
classics, and now he could not help smiling as he recalled the two
well-known lines from Ovid's Ars Amandi. But when he saw with what
a sorrowful shake of the head his friend answered the half audible
quotation, he at once discovered how deep a wound had been struck into
that poor heart. The story of that blissful love-scene and of those
happy moments spent in the garden of the Residence in the shade of
the Padan arbour, was followed by an equally graphic description of
the rude awakening out of that dream of love and felicity. Charles
van Nerekool went on telling his friend how Mrs. van Gulpendam had
broken in upon the interview--he told him all about the conversation
which he afterwards had held with fair Laurentia.

A very very bitter smile passed over the Controller's lips when
he heard what means of seduction the Resident's wife had deigned
to employ.

"My poor friend, my poor friend," he muttered almost inaudibly;
"but is this all?"

"Oh, no!" cried van Nerekool.

"Well, go on, I am all ears."

"The next day," continued van Nerekool, "I paid a visit to the
Residence, as I had promised Anna I would do; in order to lay before
her father my formal request for her hand. I had great difficulty in
obtaining an audience at all; and it was not until after I had waited
for a considerable time that I got to be admitted into the presence
of the Resident.

