"My dear William! at these words, which, you will notice, cast a
grave suspicion upon the motive of my request, upon which, however,
my entire happiness depended, I felt, as it were, the ground sinking
away from under me.

"'But, Resident,' I cried, in despair, 'do you really know what
Mrs. van Gulpendam did propose to me?'

"'Well, yes,' he said, in a very off-hand and somewhat mocking manner,
'pretty well, pretty well, I think. She held out to you the prospect
of being appointed successor to the present Chairman of the Council
at Santjoemeh, which important position, I think she told you,
might very probably be permanently conferred upon you. Further she
did not refuse you her daughter's hand--whom you declare that you
love so very dearly. You see I am pretty well informed. Now, if you
have called upon me this morning to ascertain what guarantees I can
give you that these proposals will be realised--and allow me to tell
you that is the course a sensible man would certainly take--then,
I think I may say, you need not be uneasy.'

"This utterly false interpretation of my motives, stung me to the
quick. What ignoble thoughts and sentiments must have been stirring
in that bosom!

"'Mr. van Gulpendam!' I cried out, interrupting him, very warmly,
'I was not in the least thinking of those proposals. Still less,
if possible, did I call here this morning in order to ascertain your
intentions--nothing of all this was present to my mind when I asked
you whether you were aware of the offers Mrs. van Gulpendam made me
last night.'

"'Indeed,' said he very coolly, 'then I fear I have misunderstood
you altogether, Mr. van Nerekool. In that case with what intention
did you put that question to me?'

"'What was my intention?' I replied. 'Why, my intention was simply
this. Are you aware that Mrs. van Gulpendam asked me to violate my
oath and my duty?'

"'Oh, come, come,' said he all but laughing at me.

"'Are you aware,' I continued still more hotly, 'that I was actually
required to send a poor innocent man into banishment?'

