"'My dear sir, you must be dreaming,' said he in the same tone
of banter.

"'Are you aware,' I still continued, 'that the prospect of obtaining
your daughter's hand, that honours and promotion were offered me at
the price of a human life?'

"'Now Mr. van Nerekool,' cried van Gulpendam with much assumed
indignation, 'now you are going too far! I forbid you to utter such
insinuations and to make such charges against my wife. What! you come
here to me to ask me for my daughter's hand, and you think you will
obtain your request, I suppose, by heaping insults and slanders upon
the mother of the woman you pretend to love!'

"'Insults and slanders!' I exclaimed.

"At these words of mine he cooled down immediately.

"'Well' said he, 'perhaps the expression is too strong. There must
be some misunderstanding.' And then, very quietly, he went on: 'Your
proposal, Mr. van Nerekool, is a great honour both to my daughter and
to myself. It has, however, come upon me so very unexpectedly that I
feel sure you will allow me some time for reflection. I must indeed
take some little time to consider a matter upon which the entire
happiness of my daughter will depend. Moreover, you see there can be
no hurry. Anna is very young--she is indeed much too young to think
of marriage just yet.'

"'You do not therefore deprive me of hope?' I exclaimed and, in my
excitement, I seized his hand and held it.

"He looked at me in astonishment. 'I can promise you nothing,
absolutely nothing, Mr. van Nerekool. Anna has plenty of time before
her, she can take a year--two years, perhaps--before she decides upon
a step which involves a union for life. By that time we can talk over
these matters again. Meanwhile--' He broke off hesitating.

"'Meanwhile?' I asked almost breathlessly.

"'Meanwhile,' he continued very coldly, 'you will do well not to
continue your visits at the Residence. I know you do not wish
to compromise a simple-hearted and honest young girl, I shall,
therefore, not expect to see you here excepting, of course, at our
official receptions.'

