"That was plain speaking enough,--was it not William? It was tantamount
to a refusal."

Verstork looked at his friend with very real and deep sympathy.

"I had a presentiment," he said, "of the trouble that was awaiting
you. You remember in what manner I received your communication
last week?"

"Yes, and to-day you promised you would let me know why--"

"Now tell me, Charles," said Verstork, "is there any need for me to
say anything more? You must, by this time, I presume, have been able
to form a pretty accurate estimate of the family circle into which
you would have been received in case your offer had been accepted."

"But William, Anna--!"

"Oh, yes," cried Verstork, "I know Anna is the purest and most
amiable creature in the world. I know, as well as you do, that Anna is
absolutely innocent of all this intrigue and trickery. Indeed I have
often wondered how so fair a flower could have opened and developed
in the midst of such surroundings. But, let the girl be--why simply
what she is--however adorable she may be, if you marry her you cannot
help being fettered to her parents, who are most certainly the most
self-seeking and most corrupt beings which can possibly be found in
any respectable society. My dear friend, just reflect how utterly and
hopelessly wretched you would be tied to such a pair of schemers. That,
my dear fellow, was the very thing I wanted to point out to you."

Van Nerekool heaved a deep sigh and, lost in thought, did not answer
a word. He sat as one in a dream, with his head resting on his hand,
peering upwards into the vast crown of the Wariengien tree through
which the moon, now high up in the heavens, was casting her soft
white beams.

For awhile Verstork respected his friend's silence. At length he said:
"Come now, Charles, you have, I hope, somewhat relieved your breast. I
have with a single word been able to draw your attention to that which
it imported you much to know. Now try and forget all this for a while
in sleep. You have this day had a long--and to you who are unaccustomed
to such exercise--a necessarily fatiguing ride. Rest will, therefore,
be most beneficial to you. To-morrow still greater fatigues are in
store for you. These also I hope will be a distraction, and prove
wholesome to your mind. If we would be fit for work to-morrow we must
get some sleep. Come along."

