Van Nerekool sighed again. Without a word he rose, he pressed the
hand of his friend and then followed him into the hut. The others
were already fast asleep, and he stretched himself out by their side
upon the wooden bench.








CHAPTER XVII.

IN THE DJOERANG PRINGAPOES.


Toeaan!--Toeaaan!--Toeaaaan!--

Such were the most unwelcome sounds which, a few hours later, were
heard in the hut in which all our friends lay heavily sleeping.

Gentle sleep had, at length, taken compassion on poor van Nerekool
also. For a long time after his conversation with Verstork, he had not
been able to close an eye; and had been tumbling and tossing about
and making the crazy couch creak and groan to such an extent that
Leendert Grashuis and August van Beneden, who were close beside him,
had uttered many an angry exclamation:

"For heaven's sake keep quiet! don't keep rolling about like that--it
is enough to make a fellow sea-sick--" and then again:

"The majesty of the law seems uncommonly restless to-night; perhaps
the mosquitoes trouble it, or an unquiet conscience, or a fit of
the blues."

But at length, thank God, Charles had fallen into a deep sleep;
he was not destined, however, very long to enjoy that blissful rest.

"Toeaan! Toeaaan!" Thus once again the voice began to cry. It was the
voice of Verstork's servant who had got the watchman of the guard-house
to wake him, and was now very cautiously trying to rouse his master
out of his sleep.

But the Javanese servant felt that he was engaged in a very ticklish
duty; and he set about it with all the circumspection which he was
aware such unpleasant duties required.

He knew, by sad experience, that European gentlemen are apt to lose
their temper when suddenly, at a very early hour, they are aroused
out of a delightful sleep; therefore, on all such occasions the wily
Javanese serving-man preferred to keep at a respectful distance from
his Kandjeng toean, who, he knew, might at such a time be easily
moved to raise his hand and deal him a sound box on the ears for his
trouble. Not that Verstork was at all given to such rough usage of
his servants; on the contrary, he was known and beloved among the
natives for his kindly consideration, and for the coolness of his
temper. But this was a wholly exceptional occasion, and one could
never tell what the sudden irritation of being roughly shaken out
of a pleasant slumber might produce. It was very easy to get a good
slap in the face, and therefore the astute Javanese prudently kept
himself at a safe distance.

