"Toeaan! Toeaaan!" he ventured to say again in a very intense drawling
whisper. But Verstork did not hear him.

"Toeaan! Kandjeng toeaan!"

Still not a word!

Then the servant very cautiously crept up to the couch. When he was
close to his master he again cried out, in a still more subdued and
still more drawling voice, "Toeaaan! toeaaaan!"

Still Verstork stirred not a limb, only van Nerekool seemed to have
caught the sound, and was beginning to move about restlessly.

Then the man, very gently--so gently that it could not disturb the
sleeper--began to fold back that part of the rug which covered his
master's feet. The faint glimmer of the lamp which hung dangling from
one of the rafters, just allowed him to see what he was about. When
he had laid bare one of Verstork's feet, he began very, very gently
to tickle his master's great-toe, while in the same cautious manner he
again whispered "Toeaaan! toeaaaan!" and seemed, by the very humility
of his voice, to beg pardon for the liberty he was taking in rousing
his high and mighty master.

This tickling of the toe had, at once, the desired effect. Starting
up Verstork sat up and cried:

"Who is there?" As he said these words he put his hand to his foot,
evidently fearing that a snake had touched him. Indeed, the chilly and
leathery skin of a native may very easily convey such an impression,
especially on a man who is but half awake.

"Who is there?" he cried again. But by this time the Javanese
servant had, with a bound, jumped away out of the possible reach of
his master's hand, and from the furthest corner of the hut he said:
"It is I, Kandjeng toean!"

"What do you want?" roared the Controller, now thoroughly aroused,
and not in the sweetest temper.

"It is now four o'clock, and the dessa people are all waiting."

"Is that all?" growled Verstork, who thought that his rest had been
very unnecessarily disturbed. Who knows what absurdity he might in his
drowsiness have added, had not the "toeaan, toeaan" of his servant,
and the subsequent noise awakened van Beneden also, who was sleeping
quite close to him.

