He jumped up at once, and the moment he was awake began, as the
Resident might perhaps have said, to turn up all hands.

"Come boys!" he shouted cheerily "Come boys, get up all of you!" as he
threw himself from his bed with such energy as made the slight bamboo
structure sway and creak as if it had been rocked by an earthquake.

"What's the matter, what's up?" cried several voices starting out
of sleep.

"What's up?" cried van Beneden. "There's nothing up! You get up,
all of you, as fast as you can. It is four o'clock, and the dessa
folk are all ready for the chase."

That word acted like magic. In a twinkling all were on their legs. They
dressed, washed, combed, brushed themselves as well as one can perform
all these processes in the interior of a dessa, which offers no great
facilities for an elaborate toilet to Europeans who have passed the
night in a small country hut.

For washing, indeed, there was no convenience at all--the only basin
in the place was a mere potsherd. But, all were anxious to be off,
and like soldiers who, in the field, have not always Sèvres or even
Delt at command, they did the best they could, and soon completed
their hasty toilet. Diogenes, the Greek philosopher of Sinope, had
frequently, no doubt, dressed himself in much the same fashion. In
a few moments all were ready, even van Nerekool who was bent upon
seeking some relief for mental pain in physical exertion.

When they stepped out of the cabin they saw the entire male population
seated cross-legged on the village green, trying to protect themselves
from the cold morning air by drawing their sarongs as far as possible
over their shoulders. Every man had brought his lance, and had stuck
it upright before him into the ground. Every one of them held a huge
rattle, an instrument very like that with which our old watchmen used
to murder sleep while they pretended to keep guard over the sleepers.

The moon was, by this time, casting her beams under the branches
of the Wariengien tree, and, as the pale light shone upon that
strange group of human beings seated there in a crouching posture,
it illustrated most vividly the theory of Darwin, so very much did
that assembly look like a great conclave of apes.

