"Are all your men here, Loerah?" asked Verstork.

"Yes, Kandjeng toean."

"Very good. Then send one part of them round by the maize fields of
the dessa, let the second division spread itself to the westward over
the neck of the Dojerang Pringapoes, and let the rest go right into
the ravine."

"Yes, Kandjeng toean--But--!"

"Well, but what?" asked Verstork, noticing the Loerah's hesitation.

"May not the animals," said the chief, "thus make their escape through
the eastern side of the ravine?"

"How so, Loerah?" said Verstork. "You have heard, I suppose, that
the people from Banjoe Pahit will occupy the whole of the eastern
side, and part even of the western side of the ravine? Very good,
now we understand each other I hope. We shall get on horseback at
once, and will post ourselves in the upper part of the pass, and,
if our instructions have been properly carried out, the whole of the
game must come that way. Now, just listen carefully to what I have
to tell you, Loerah."

"Yes, Kandjeng toean."

"As soon as we have got to the upper part of the ravine we shall fire
a shot."

"Shall we hear it, sir, right down at the bottom?"

"You are right, Loerah, quite right, it is a good distance--perhaps
too far--Well then, I will tell you what you must do. As soon as day
begins to break--but, mind you, before the sun has fairly risen--you
will set your beaters to work. But, whatever you do, take care that
the beasts have the road to the ravine left open to them."

"Yes, Kandjeng toean," was the invariable answer of the Loerah,
always spoken in the most respectful tone.

Then in the deepest silence the beaters betook themselves to their
posts while the European horsemen took the road to Banjoe Pahit.

As yet it was quite dark, so that the horses had to proceed at a very
slow walk. This very moderate pace was absolutely necessary, because
the road which they had to follow was a narrow path leading through
the flooded rice fields, and the slightest deviation might have led to
a highly unpleasant mud-bath. Presently, however, a faint streak of
light was beginning to show itself on the eastern horizon. At first
it was all but imperceptible, it seemed like a faint reflection of
the waning moonlight; but gradually it became broader and deeper,
then is began to spread a fiery glow over the eastern sky, and made
the stars, which were still brightly twinkling in the zenith, to pale
and fade away. The narrow path kept winding upwards; for Banjoe Pahit,
towards which the riders were making their way, lay on much higher
ground than Kaligaweh which was situated on the low foreshore. As
the dawning light grew clearer and brighter, the horsemen were able
to mend their pace, and soon the horses were going along at a good
sharp trot, impelled, in a measure, by the instinct which told them
that they were heading in the direction of their stables.

