The upper end of the ravine was reached in good time, and the horsemen
dismounted and gave their beasts in charge of a couple of Javanese
servants who had come to meet them along with the body of beaters
from Banjoe Pahit to which Mokesuep also had joined himself. These
men at once took the horses home to the dessa.

It was not yet full daylight. The western sky was still a deep dark
blue; but in the East the dawn was clothing itself in all the brilliant
hues which herald the near approach of the perfect day. On all sides
trees and bushes grew in the wildest disorder, and in their branches
birds innumerable were piping and warbling, each, in his own way,
sending up his hymn of praise to the great Creator. Leaves, twigs,
boughs, flowers, and grass-blades, all were thickly covered with the
tiniest possible specks of dew; and, as the light gradually brightened
in the East, seemed bathed as it were in molten silver.

In spite of their impatience to begin their work upon the game,
our young friends could not help pausing for a few moments in order
to admire the magnificent spectacle before them, and to enjoy the
delightful freshness of that glorious time which immediately precedes
a sunrise; when suddenly, very far in the distance, was heard the
confused noise of a most frightful tumult.

"There they go!" cried Verstork, "those are our beaters, what a row
the fellows are making to be sure."

The natives were indeed hard at it, springing their rattles, banging
on bamboos, yelling and screaming in a manner which drowned every
other sound in nature, especially in that solemn morning hour when
the orb of day is just about to rise.

At first the noise was heard as a mere confused hum very far away
in the distance; but, as it gradually drew nearer and nearer, it
became so exciting that even poor van Nerekool, forgetting his woes
for a while, ran up and down clutching his rifle with trembling hand,
and some of his companions, more excited even than he was, had their
weapons at full cock, ready to open fire at a moment's notice.

