"Now then, my friends," said Verstork, trying to calm down all this
unnecessary flurry; "pray keep quiet. We have plenty of time before
us. Please all keep cool, or we shall have some accident with those
firearms."

"Are we in a good position here?" asked Grashuis.

"We are standing too close together it strikes me," remarked van
Beneden.

"I intend to take you a little further into the ravine," said Verstork.

So they all advanced some fifty or hundred yards along a steep pathway
which ran winding down through shaggy bushes and rocky boulders. Just
by the side of that rugged path, the brook Banjoe Pahit began its
downward course along its bed of rocks. It was a wonderfully beautiful
little stream; its waters of the purest crystal went dancing from crag
to crag, forming, in one place, a pleasant little basin or pool, at
another tumbling down in foaming cataracts and splashing waterfalls,
then, suddenly and mysteriously, disappearing altogether for a while
amidst the wild shrubs and rugged boulders, and then a little further
on, springing up again to renew its brawling and wanton play. The
scene in the Djoerang Pringapoes was as wild and savage as possible,
but marvellously picturesque withal. When the party had clambered down
about a third part of the slope, the massive walls of rock which, up to
that point, completely hemmed in the entrance to the ravine and which
formed a kind of slit, suddenly ran back like the sides of a funnel,
while they continued grandly and majestically to tower up into the sky.

The bottom of the ravine, however, as well as its walls, bore abundant
evidence of great natural convulsions. Huge boulders were flung about
in it at random in all directions, the stems of the trees which grew
there were twisted and curled up into lumps and knots and were still
bearing tufts of withered grass and nests of dry branches; the smoothly
polished rocks also amply testified that when the north-east wind
opened the sluice gates of heaven and the water-floods came down in
torrents from the heights--the Banjoe Pahit could howl and roar along,
and form dreadful currents and whirlpools; and that, at such times,
it was well to keep out of the now quiet defile.

