As the hunters were looking about them at the savage scene around,
the din made by the beaters was gradually coming nearer and nearer. It
was still a considerable way off and not a solitary head of game had
shown itself.

"I wonder how that is?" said August van Beneden. "I fancied that we
might have set to work shooting at once. May not our wild boars, if
there are any at all in this ravine, have got away by some other road?"

"No, no," replied Verstork, "the Djoerang Pringapoes is hemmed in on
almost all sides with perpendicular rocks, such as not even a wild
pig can climb. There are two or three spots where the walls are not
quite so steep, and which such animals might perhaps scale; but,
if the Loeras of Banjoe Pahit and of Kaligaweh have carried out my
instructions, these weak points have all been occupied by their men,
so that none of the animals can have got away by them. The beaters,
you see, with their abominable rattles are driving the pigs into the
ravine, and I know they will all make for it, especially as it is
their usual haunt."

"Aye, aye," said van Rheijn, "I see; but once in this ravine, depend
upon it they will lie very close, there is plenty of room here for
a game at hide and seek, and if they choose to get to cover, we may
stand here waiting for them till doomsday."

"That might be so," remarked Verstork with a smile, "if the beaters
would let them. But those fellows with their rattles will follow the
pigs into the ravine and drive them in our direction. You will see
how they will manage that presently. Just listen--what a row they
are kicking up yonder--one would think they were a pack of fiends!"

Verstork indeed might well say so; for your Javanese, under ordinary
circumstances cool and phlegmatic enough, can, on such occasions as
a boar-hunt, display activity and energy in abundance. Then he seems
almost beside himself; then he screams, he yells, he bellows, he
whistles, he hisses, he crows, he shrieks. Then he frantically plies
his rattle and, with any weapon he may happen to have in his hand,
he bangs upon anything and everything he comes across, on trunks of
trees, on stones--which, by the way, not unfrequently give out most
melodious sounds--on the sheath of his kris--undoubtedly he would bring
down a whack on the skull of his neighbour also were he suffered to
do so. And all this for the mere purpose of making a noise, the most
horrible din imaginable in order to drive the game, which by nature
is wild enough, into the direction which he wishes it to take.

