"Now," said Verstork, "just a few paces further on and then we
come to the entrance of the Djoerang Ketjel where a small stream,
which we call the Karang Aleh, flows into the Banjoe Pahit. After the
junction the two streams flow together through the narrowest gorge of
the Pringapoes. Look there, you can see the split in the rocks just
ahead. You see we are bounded on all sides by sheer cliffs and the
game must pass through this defile to reach the upper part of the
ravine and get away."

"By Jove," cried van Rheijn, "this does not strike me as a very
pleasant spot, the place looks like a picture of universal ruin
and desolation."

Indeed it was a terrible scene. The ragged sides of the ravines,
consisting entirely of grey lava-rock, towered up perpendicularly into
the sky. Here and there, on the bare walls, a mass of stone seemed,
in its descent, to have stuck fast; and, in course of time, a little
soil had gathered on its surface. In this shallow layer of earth,
vegetation had immediately sprung up and formed there, as it were, a
little green island in the midst of the grey ocean of desolation. Huge
fragments of jagged stone lay scattered about in the wildest confusion,
and amidst these, many weird and unsightly plants grew and flourished,
such as the Sembong, the Kemanden Kerbo and the Oering aring with its
venomous prickles. There also were seen the gnarled and twisted stems
of the Djatie doerie and of the Siwallan. These stunted trees raised
their poor meagre crowns out of the sea of stone, and, by arresting
the progress of the débris which the water-flood whirled along,
served to block up the pass still more effectually.

"Now then, my friends," said Verstork, "let us divide--we are standing
here much too close together. Van Nerekool, the Wedono, and myself will
take our stand here just opposite this narrow pass. You, Leendert,
go with August to the top of that piece of rock which you see yonder
to the right. You Theodoor and Frits take up your position on that
broken ground on the slope. From those points you will have the gorge
completely under your fire, and--if you really are as good shots as
you are supposed to be--why then not a solitary pig ought to escape
us. But make haste, get into your places--the beaters seem to be
getting quite close."

