"It may be,--but--perhaps it is not so," was the chiefs cautious reply.

Still they waited, and waited--the din of the beaters was approaching
with every moment and their yells became more distinct. A few minutes
more would decide the question whether there was any game in the
ravine or not, for a very short time would bring the beaters to the
mouth of the opening.

Verstork was getting quite nervous with impatience, jokes were
beginning to pass pretty freely among his friends, and although
they were perfectly good-humoured jests and showed not the slightest
ill-will towards him, yet they were not pleasant to listen to. Mokesuep
was the only one who, in a singularly offensive tone, cried out:

"I say, Controller, I hope all that pork we are going to kill won't
disagree with us!"--

"Hold your tongue, wretched Muizenkop," said Theodoor Grenits. "You
always find some nasty thing to say!"

"That's all very fine," replied Mokesuep, "I can tell you I am getting
beastly tired of standing here. A lot of fellows invited for a day's
shooting, when there is nothing to shoot at!"

"The pigs were here all right enough," said Grenits, "you may depend
upon that; I don't suppose you can blame Verstork if the beaters have
allowed them to escape!"

Mokesuep was on the point of making some ill-natured rejoinder when
Bang! Bang! Bang! went three rifle shots and interrupted his sneering
remarks.

They were the rifles of Verstork, of van Nerekool and of the
Wedono. These three were posted at the very mouth of the ravine,
and had suddenly caught sight of a greyish indistinct mass of living
things rushing towards the opening. Quick as thought, the three had
thrown their rifles up to their shoulders and had opened fire upon
the advancing herd of swine. The other hunters had, as yet, seen
nothing. The rattling and yelling of the beaters seemed to redouble
in intensity the moment they heard the first shots fired, and almost
drowned the discordant grunts and groans of the pigs as they pressed
into the narrow defile. From that moment however, all doubts as to
the issue of the day's sport were at an end.

