Meanwhile the fire had been kept up with hardly any cessation and with
almost the same fatal effect. The grunting herd still was striving to
push onward and to get clear of the deadly pass, and again and again
the bullets knocked down the foremost, who in their death-struggle,
dealt ripping blows all around.

But at length, after having for a while wallowed about hopelessly, a
small remnant which still remained unwounded, suddenly headed round,
led on by a huge black-coloured boar, and now no longer awed by the
beaters, made a headlong charge back into the ravine from which they
found it impossible to escape.








CHAPTER XVIII.

ENTRAPPED.


"Hurrah! they have turned tail, they are making off!" exclaimed
Mokesuep.

That hero had all the while been trembling with fear; he had been in
mortal terror lest the pigs should break through the line of fire;
for if they had succeeded in doing so, a close struggle with the
sword bayonet would probably have ensued. Therefore he had most
anxiously been peering about to see if he could discover any way of
retreat up the steep mountain sides. If, during that morning there
had been shots fired which had flown wide of the mark, such misses
had been due to his shaking hand. Indeed, some of his bullets had
gone right over the wall of rock which hemmed in the ravine on all
sides; but most fortunately had not injured any of the Javanese who
were beating on the other side. The unpleasant whistling, however,
of the projectiles from Mokesuep's rifle had scared the natives,
and it was in a measure owing to those stray shots that the beaters
had given up the battue rather sooner than they ought to have done.

Grenits was in a rage. "What are you hurrahing about," cried he to
Mokesuep, "you were never born to be a Nimrod, that's plain enough!"

"Well," stammered the coward, whose lips were still white with fear;
"it is all right, is it not?"

"All right!" cried Grenits, "no, it's all wrong. Don't you see that
the remnant of the herd will get clear away? Come! forward! They are
getting away, I tell you, we must get after them and not let a single
head escape! Forward, boys, forward!"

