The other young men, who were just as much vexed as was Grenits
at the unsatisfactory result of their hunt, rushed into the pass
together rifle in hand. Mokesuep only, very prudently remained behind,
not even could the Wedono get him to follow by crying out to him,
"Come! quick, sir." Our hero merely shook his head and stood looking
after his companions until they disappeared out of his sight. Then
throwing his rifle over his shoulder he took the road to Banjoe Pahit
as he muttered to himself:

"No doubt, that's all very well; but I shall take precious good care
not to come into contact with that filthy vermin. No, no, I shall go
and have a chat with the wife of Verstork's cook--who knows what I may
manage to do in that quarter! A nice little woman that! A devilish
sly dog that Controller; what fun if I could get some shooting over
his preserves!"

Thus mumbling to himself he walked along and had gained the upper
entrance to the Djoerang Pringapoes. From that eminence he could
command a fine extensive view over the broad rice-fields which rose in
terraces on the hill-slopes, and whose surfaces, flooded with water
at that time of the year, lay glistening in the bright sunshine like
so many polished mirrors. It was as yet very early--scarcely half
past seven o'clock. Mokesuep stood there looking all around him,
not indeed in admiration of the beauties of nature; for a creature
of his stamp could have no eye for that kind of thing; but gazing
about anxiously and more than half frightened at the silence and
solitude in which he now found himself after the riot and confusion
down in the ravine. In the far distance he could still distinguish
the shouts of the hunters and could now and then hear a shot fired by
them at the retreating game; but the noise of the hunt grew fainter and
fainter, and as it gradually died away in the depths of the Djoerang,
not another sound was heard round about. This sudden stillness had
something very disquieting about it. Mokesuep half wished that some
human being would appear to share the solitude with him, and yet,
on the other hand, he was wholly afraid of meeting with some of
the natives. He had heard dreadful tales of the robbers by which
some of the inland parts of Java were infested and rendered unsafe;
and though he had a rifle slung from his shoulder which might have
inspired any other man with confidence, he was of far too cowardly
a nature to put any trust in his weapon. He stepped along slowly
and cautiously, and presently, at the foot of a small range of hills
lying to the northward and which formed a continuation of the chain of
mountains in which the Djoerang Pringapoes was situated, he discovered
a solitary hut, partly hidden away in the thick underwood which grew
around it. Close by a couple of oxen were grazing by the side of a
pathway. This little road ran past the hut to the north-west, and
winded along the low dykes of the rice-fields. As Mokesuep traced the
pathway in its course over the hill-slopes, he suddenly perceived a
human figure evidently making for the hut. It was the form of a woman,
of that there could be no doubt. Mokesuep breathed freely again; in
the presence of a woman, especially if that woman happened to "be a
native, he felt brave enough; so he determined to wait for her, to
try and enter into conversation and to walk pleasantly and sociably
together to Banjoe Pahit. The approaching form, standing out boldly
over the flooded rice-fields and reflected in their shining surface
grew more and more distinct with every moment.

