"By Jove," muttered Mokesuep, after having watched her for awhile,
"by Jove, what a pretty girl! All the better for me--I shall have a
charming walk with that dear little thing!"

He was, however, altogether out in his reckoning. When the girl got
close to the hut, she took a side path which ran in a south-easterly
direction downwards amongst the rice-terraces, and which appeared to
lead to Kaligaweh. Great was Mokesuep's disappointment at seeing this,
and he was about to call out to her. Just then a Javanese came out
of the hut and began beckoning to the girl.

"By heaven!" muttered Mokesuep, "that is Singomengolo, the opium
spy. What in the world is he doing here?" And immediately he concealed
himself behind some bushes which were growing by the wayside.

It was indeed Singomengolo, the wretch whom the evening before we
saw leaving Kaligaweh and riding to the lonely hut. Again and again,
he beckoned to the girl; but as she did not heed him, he cried out:

"Dalima!"

At this call the girl turned for an instant. Yes, it was pretty
little Dalima, the baboe in the family of Mrs. van Gulpendam. She
stopped for a moment, while her features showed undisguised terror
as she recognised the notorious opium-hunter, whom she knew well by
sight. She did not, however, stop for more than a single instant,
and then sped on again as fast as she could.

"Dalima!" again cried Singomengolo, "Dalima, where are you hurrying
to?"

"I am going to Kaligaweh," said the girl in a nervous tone of voice.

"Well, just come here for a moment," continued Singo.

"No, no," she replied, "I have not an instant to spare, I must get to
my father as quickly as I possibly can," and again she sped on her way.

"Come here, I say," cried Singomengolo, "I have something to tell
you about your father!"

"Oh, yes, I know," rejoined the young girl, "they told me father is
very ill--that is why I am in such a hurry."

"You are wrong," cried Singo, "your father is not ill--it is something
much worse than that."

