The girl stopped at once: "Worse than that?" she asked, "tell me,
is he dead?"

"No--much worse!"

"By Allah--what is it?"

"Come here," said Singo, "and I will tell you. There are things,
you know, that one cannot shout out by the wayside."

This brought Dalima to his side. As she walked up to him, she had to
pass the bushes behind which Mokesuep was lying concealed--in fact,
in passing she brushed by them. As usual Dalima was very neatly
dressed. Round her waist she wore a gaily coloured sarong, her bodice
was of pink cotton, and over her shoulders was folded a red kerchief,
from one of the points of which dangled a bunch of keys.

She had a double melattie flower in her thick heavy tresses, which,
in the midst of that ebon-black mass of hair, looked like a pretty
white rose. Just then her face was covered with a rich flush caused
partly by the exertion of her long walk, partly by the pleasant
coolness of the morning air; but this rich colour added animation
to her pretty features, and blended most harmoniously with the deep
bronze of her complexion.

The experienced eye of the concealed fiscal functionary did not allow a
single one of these charms to escape it. Yes, there were certain cases
in which Mokesuep was by no means insensible to the beautiful, though
its contemplation generally awakened evil passions in his breast;
and not unfrequently led to criminal designs. What might have happened
had he walked alone with Dalima to Banjoe Pahit, who can tell. For the
present the appearance of Singomengolo forced him to remain in hiding.

When the girl had come close to the hut, she asked again: "What is
the matter? tell me!"

"Come in with me," replied the opium-spy, "and I will let you know
why your father has been taken into custody."

As he said these words, Dalima suddenly uttered a loud
shriek. Singomengolo thought, of course, that the news he had told
her and his rough manner of conveying it, had wrung that cry from the
young girl; but Dalima had turned round abruptly and was trying to
run away as fast as her feet would carry her. The fact is, she had,
through the half open door of the hut seen the odious face of Lim Ho
gazing at her with eyes dilated with passion. That sight made the poor
girl turn and dart away; but she had hardly gone a few yards before
Singomengolo overtook her, and grasping her wrists, tried, by main
force, to drag her along with him into the hut. Dalima resisted with
all her might. She screamed for help, she kicked at her captor and
tried to bite the hands with which he held her arms tightly clasped. In
fact she fought as desperately as a wild cat, determined to resist
and defend herself to the very last. She was in hopes also that her
cries might possibly be heard, for she was under the impression that
just now she had seen a European on the pathway which crossed the road
she was taking. Any other man but Mokesuep would have flown to the
rescue of the poor child; who knows to what excess of heroism even
he might have allowed himself to be carried--not indeed out of any
feeling of kindly sympathy or from any chivalrous promptings; but in
the hope of perhaps--Yes--in such a mind as his the foulest thoughts
will spring even as venomous toad-stools on an unclean soil. But--he
also had caught sight of Lim Ho--he had noticed that face burning
with ignoble passion. At a glance he understood what was going on,
and, at the same time, he resolved to keep perfectly quiet in order
that he might reap the fullest advantage out of the situation.

