Lim Ho's father was an enormously wealthy man, and when the safety
or reputation of his son was concerned he would not mind coming down
handsomely--a couple of thousand guilders or so were nothing to a
man of that kind.

Poor little Dalima! In utter despair she had flung herself to the
ground, most heartrending were her shrieks of agony, help! help! but
it was all in vain. The mean wretch who might, by merely raising his
hand so to speak, have set her free, kept himself snugly concealed. He
looked upon the struggle with cynical eye, nay was actually gloating
with satisfaction at the glimpses which now and then he caught of
the charms, which, in the violence of her resistance, Dalima could
not always keep concealed. This went on for some little time, and
Singomengolo began to feel that it was impossible for him to drag
her along any further without assistance from Lim Ho. He called to
the Chinaman to come to his aid. The latter at once obeyed the call,
came out of the hut, and tried to clasp the girl in his arms and thus
carry her along. But when, in that attempt, he got a very painful
bite in the ear, the wretch became mad with fury. He laid hold of the
mass of hair which in the struggle had become loosened, and was now
quite unrolled, and twisting his hand into the heavy tresses while
Singomengolo still held the girl's wrists, he dragged her by main
force into the hut. For a considerable time after that the fearful
shrieks "Help! help! toean!" were still heard; but gradually they
grew fainter and fainter until at length they ceased altogether. In
the very far distance rifle shots still resounded; but even if Dalima
could have heard them in the excitement of the struggle, she must have
understood that her voice could not possibly reach so far, and that,
in any case, if help did come, it must come too late.

How did Dalima happen to be on the fatal spot at that early hour?

The reader may remember how that, after having accomplished his heroic
deed in the dessa Kaligaweh, Singomengolo had ridden away and had
taken the direction of the lonely hut in the hill-country; and how,
on his arrival, he had sent the man who lived there as his messenger
to Santjoemeh. This man had two commissions to execute. In the first
place he was told to go and give into Lim Ho's own hands a little
note with which Singo had entrusted him, and, after having done that,
he was to call at the Residence and was to tell baboe Dalima that her
father Setrosmito had suddenly been taken dangerously ill and that
he was most anxious to see her. The messenger, who was a very shrewd
and clever fellow, had at once jumped on the back of one of those
small and ugly, but well-nigh indefatigable Javanese ponies, whose
muscles of steel seem never to tire and carry them in a surprisingly
short space of time over vast distances. It was about eleven o'clock
when he reached the stately mansion of babah Lim Yang Bing. He was
very lucky, for he was not kept waiting a single instant, as Lim Ho
happened to be within at the time. The son of the rich opium farmer lay
reclining luxuriously upon a splendid divan, his long Chinese pipestem
was between his lips and by his side on a small table stood a cup of
arrack. He was listening in a kind of rapture to two of his servants,
who, like himself, were children of the Celestial Empire. These fellows
seated on low ivory stools were twanging on a kind of two-stringed
fiddle or guitar, and were drawing tones out of their instruments which
would not only have horrified a Vieuxtemps or a Paganini, but would
have instantly dispersed even a meeting of tom-cats who, in the matter
of harmony, are not usually reckoned to be exacting. Lim Ho no sooner
caught sight of Singomengolo's emissary, than he jumped up from the
couch, grasped the letter which the man held out to him, and eagerly
scanned the very few words it contained. It was a document brief and
laconic as a telegram but, to Lim Ho, of the deepest significance. The
words it contained were only these: "Everything ready, be here by
seven in the morning." The Chinaman pulled out his watch, he looked
at the time while he asked the messenger what the weather was like.

