"Bright moonlight, babah," was the man's reply.

Lim Ho then dismissed him, flinging him a rix-dollar, and telling him
to be specially careful how he discharged his second commission. He
ordered him to come and report the result to him, then he ordered
his horse to be saddled and waited.

The man did not find his second task quite such an easy one to perform
as the former. The Resident van Gulpendam and his wife were seated
with some visitors at the usual card-tables; but the daughter of the
house had already retired to her own room, and had given her baboe
leave to go to bed without waiting up any longer. The fellow found it
therefore necessary to go to the back of the premises, and at length
he contrived to get one of the servants to go and rouse Dalima.

The young girl was terribly shocked at hearing the dreadful tidings of
her father, whom the rascal represented as being in a dying state. She
at once rushed into the pandoppo and entered the bedroom of her young
mistress who, fortunately, had not yet retired to rest.

"Nana, give me leave!" she cried, in the greatest agitation, as soon
as she had opened the door.

"Come," said Anna, "what is the matter with you? do try and be
calm." The young lady had perceived at once that there was something
very wrong, and tried to quiet her servant's excitement by herself
remaining perfectly cool and self-possessed.

Thereupon Dalima told her that a man had just arrived from Kaligaweh
with a message from her father who was lying at death's door, and
who wished, for the last time perhaps, to see his daughter.

"Oh, Nana," begged the poor girl, "do try and get me leave to go home!"

"But, Dalima," objected Anna, "what is the time?" And looking at a
handsome clock on a console close by, she continued, "Why it is close
upon midnight!--It is out of the question--You could not possibly go
out in the dark!"

"Oh!" cried Dalima, in pleading tones, "Nana knows that I am very
brave. I know the way perfectly. I shall take the short cut over the
hills; by that road I shall get to Kaligaweh without meeting anybody."

