To her great surprise fair Laurentia made no difficulty at all, and
at once acceded to her daughter's request, stipulating only that,
before setting out, Dalima should finish some needle-work which she
had given her to do and which she particularly wished to have ready
by the morning.

Oh, no! Mrs. van Gulpendam had no objection whatever to Dalima's going
to Kaligaweh; on the contrary, she thought it very praiseworthy in the
girl that she showed so much devotion to her parents. A honey-sweet
smile hovered on her lips as she gave her gracious permission, and no
one--least of all her pure and innocent daughter--could have guessed
at the awful abyss of wickedness which lurked behind that sunny smile.

Highly pleased with the result of her attempt, Anna hastened with
her good news to Dalima, and in the kindness of her heart she gave
up a considerable portion of her night's rest to assist her baboe in
getting through her task of needle-work.

It is a dreadful thing to have to say; but Laurentia had not made that
stipulation about finishing the work without an object. Her object
was to delay Dalima's departure, so that she might not reach the hut
in the middle of the night, and, in the darkness, perhaps pass it
unobserved. Diligently assisted by her mistress, the baboe was able
to set out on her journey about three o'clock in the morning. After
having affectionately taken leave, Dalima left the premises by the
back-way through a small garden gate, of which Anna had procured her
the key. This gate took her straight into the road which led over the
hills to Kaligaweh. The moon was shining brightly in the heavens, and
thus the girl was able to walk along rapidly, and soon she lost sight
of Santjoemeh while not a single thought of danger crossed her brain.

Lim Ho had been informed by Singomengolo's messenger that the pretty
baboe had received the news of her father's illness--the reader however
knows that a far different calamity had befallen Setrosmito--so he
said in a highly satisfied tone:

