"What on earth may that be?" he cried.

"Oh," replied Singomengolo as calmly as possible, "that is nothing at
all--only the toean Controller of Banjoe Pahit going on a pig-hunt--the
dessa folk of that place and of Kaligaweh are beginning to beat up
the game."

"How do you know that?" asked Lim Ho.

"I was at Kaligaweh yesterday, and there I met the Controller and the
company he has with him; they came to make the necessary arrangements
for the day's hunting."

"You were at Kaligaweh?" asked Lim Ho.

"Of course I was, babah," replied Singo quietly. "I was there,"
he continued with a nasty smirk, "to catch old Setrosmito at
opium-smuggling."

"Aye, aye," said Lim Ho, "that's true, I know now."

Lim Ho pronounced these words in a tone of voice which showed that
to him the infamous plot whereby a victim had been removed out of his
father's way, was the most trifling incident in the world, a bagatelle
which had wholly escaped his memory.

"And did you succeed in finding opium?"

"Of course I did," replied Singomengolo, "you know well enough, babah,
that I always succeed when it suits me to try."

"Yes, yes," said Lim Ho in a patronising way, "you are a clever fellow,
there is no doubt about that. Dalima's father has, I suppose, been
got rid of at least for a few weeks?"

"Yes, for a longer time than a few weeks," replied Singo very
significantly.

"How so? Has anything else happened then?"

"Setrosmito has run amokh and has killed a countryman of yours
outright, and severely wounded a policeman. It was precious nearly
all up with me too; but I managed to slip away from him in the very
nick of time."

"Good! good!" said Lim Ho, gleefully rubbing his hands together. "So
that?" he continued.

"So that," remarked Singomengolo, "Dalima's father, if they don't
hang him, will be at the very least imprisoned for life."

"You know," said Lim Ho, "that was wonderfully cleverly managed. But
what's up now?"

In the distance a well sustained rifle-fire was heard, in fact the
chase had begun.

