"It is only the gentlemen in the Djoerang Pringapoes. They are firing
at the wild-pigs I suppose. Allah prosper them!"

"But," said Lim Ho, "may not those white fellows get into our way,
the ravine, you know, is not so very far off."

"The toeans," said Singo, "are a great deal too much engrossed in
their sport to take any notice of what we are about. For myself, I much
prefer to hear them blazing away yonder to their heart's content in the
Djoerang Pringapoes, than to know that they are sitting quill-driving
in their offices. Your white man with a pen in his hand is a much
more formidable creature, and is much more formidably armed too,
than when he handles a rifle."

Thus they sat talking and listening to what was going on beneath them
in the Djoerang, while time was rapidly passing away.

"But Dalima does not seem to be coming," signed Lim Ho, with
impatience.

"Yes, she is," said Singo, "yonder on that path between the rice-fields
I see some one--that must be she."

"Look, look!" cried Lim Ho, in consternation, "there from the ravine
comes a white man--now we have lost our chance."

Singomengolo turned his eyes in the direction which Lim Ho indicated,
and, as he looked, he muttered a deep curse; he saw at once that the
Chinaman had not been mistaken. Yet, he could not make out at all
who it could be so quietly making his way towards the hut. He was
one of the shooting party, there could be no doubt about that, for he
carried a rifle and came from the direction of the Djoerang. And that
wretched mar-plot must come right across Dalima's path, just as she
was coming in the other direction! Everything had been so carefully
planned--and now--that brute! It was enough to drive a fellow mad! But
the next moment Lim Ho cried out joyously:

"By Jove, it is toean Mouse-head that is coming along there. I know
him perfectly well. Now I don't mind a bit. I know him. You may call
the baboe as much as you like, there is no danger. I will square
matters easily enough with that fellow yonder!"

