Lim Ho had recognised our friend Mokesuep. As the reader has been told,
that gentleman used familiarly to be called by almost everyone in
Santjoemeh, "Muizenkop," and this nickname some wags had translated
into Javanese. Thus he went by the name of Kapala tikoes, or the
Mouse-head. Singomengolo also recognised the exciseman of Santjoemeh,
and now he no longer felt much apprehension that his detestable plot
would be frustrated.

"A mere matter of money," said he to the Chinaman, with a significant
smile.

As Dalima came to the crossway, and was about to enter the path
which ran down to Kaligaweh, the opium-spy had left the hut, and was
preparing to call to her to stop, when he saw the European hastily
conceal himself behind the clump of bushes by the roadside. This
move on the part of Mokesuep completely reassured the accomplices,
and their wicked plot was crowned with the success with which the
reader has already been made acquainted.

Even had Mokesuep felt any inclination to present himself in the
character of rescuer, that impulse was wholly extinguished the moment
Lim Ho appeared upon the scene. The wretched coward only hid himself
more closely behind his screen of leaves as he muttered:

"By Jove, dame Fortune is playing into my hand--no one but an ass
would refuse so fair an offer."

Meanwhile the despairing cries of poor little Dalima were gradually
dying away as her strength began to fail, and as she became utterly
exhausted.

"Help, help! toean, help!" was the last piercing shriek which re-echoed
in that solitude. The only response, alas! was the well-sustained
rifle-fire in the distance.








CHAPTER XIX.

HELP! HELP!


But yet, poor Dalima's shrieks and wild cries for help had been heard.

That part of the mountain cleft, into which the hunters had plunged
in pursuit of the retreating wild boars, did not extend very far,
it was not longer than about a thousand yards; but the bottom of
the ravine was just there exceedingly winding, and, as it followed
the tortuous course of the small stream Banjoe Pahit, it was strewn
all over with huge fragments of stone, while the dark-grey walls of
volcanic trachyte towered up almost perpendicularly to the height of
more than fifty or sixty yards.

