In that narrow pass the scene of confusion was utterly
indescribable. The grunting and squealing of the maddened herd of
swine, the yelling and rattling of the beaters who, on seeing the
animals charge back, had resumed their unearthly noise, the almost
incessant crashing of the fire from the breech-loading rifles--all
these sounds, echoing and re-echoing within that narrow rock-bound
gorge, made a din which was absolutely deafening.

The hunted animals now desperate and infuriated, madly charged at
the line of native beaters, who seemed to them less formidable than
their European foes. For a few moments the dessa folk attempted
to make a stand, and thrusting about furiously with their lances,
they made some ineffectual efforts to turn the beasts back again
into the ravine. But they very soon had to give way before the
charge of the formidable tusks, and took to their heels altogether
as soon as the rifle bullets began to screech over their heads. Those
cylindero-conical projectiles from the new-fashioned rifles make such
a horrid screaming as they speed overhead on their deadly errand,
that it is no wonder they demoralised the poor natives altogether. In
less than no time the line of beaters had vanished before the charge
of the boars, as the mountain mist before the morning sun. The greater
part of the Javanese managed to swarm up the high rocky peaks, others
darted up the trees; but not a single one ventured to remain within
reach of the sharp tusks of the wild boars.

The animals were however greatly diminished in numbers and not very
many of them succeeded, under the incessant rifle-fire, in getting
clear of the pass. Upward of fifteen carcases lay stretched motionless
on the ground; but a far greater number had received wounds more or
less severe; which, however, in that climate were sure to prove fatal.

"Forward, boys, forward!" cried Verstork, excited by the success they
had gained; "forward, we must not let a single one of that mischievous
brood escape!"

