That, however, was much more easily said than done. The hunters
continued to press the retreating game, and contrived to fire many a
shot and to bring down many a victim; but the pigs were uncommonly
fleet of foot and now that the chain of beaters was broken and
there was nothing to stop them, they were soon lost to sight amid
the inextricable tangle of shrubs, tree-trunks, and boulders which
encumbered the bottom of the ravine. Our European friends did their
very utmost to keep up with the game; but it was a task which would
have required nothing less than the nimbleness and dexterity of an
orang-outang to accomplish, perhaps even that animal might have had
to give up the pursuit.

Yes, there they stood at length, dead beat, their clothes in tatters,
their hands torn by the thorns through which in the heat of the
excitement they had forced their way, in one word, completely pumped
out and exhausted, there they stood panting and gasping for breath. At
length Verstork managed somewhat to recover his wind, and shouted to
his friends to rally them.

"Where is Grashuis?" asked the Controller, looking around him.

"And where is Grenits?" van Rheijn managed to gasp out.

They were nowhere to be seen, and their friends were beginning to
feel anxious about them, when a couple of rifle-shots in the distance
informed the hunters that the two missing men were still obstinately
bent on continuing the pursuit.

"That will never do," said Verstork, "we must go after them,
one can never tell what may happen and what need there may be of
assistance. But," continued he, "can any of you tell me where the
shots came from?"

Every hand was raised at once; but they unfortunately all pointed
in different directions. Had there been hands enough they would,
no doubt, have indicated every point in the compass.

"There," said one.

"No, no, there," cried another.

"You are wrong," said a third, "they came from this side."

"That's a confounded nuisance," said Verstork much perplexed, "the
shots took me quite by surprise and I really don't know from what
direction they came. We must wait a bit, perhaps they will fire again."

