"I am precious glad of it," said van Beneden, "now we can sit down
and rest a bit on that rock yonder. I am regularly fagged out."

He had not, however, a very long rest, for barely ten minutes had
elapsed before another shot was heard, and this was followed almost
immediately after by a second discharge. This time the reports were
evidently further off than before; but there was no mistake about
the direction from whence they came.

"Come gentlemen," cried Verstork, as he snatched up his rifle again,
"come, gentlemen, this way!"

"Might we not wait a few minutes longer?" pleaded van Beneden,
"I am dead tired."

"Meanwhile," said the Wedono, as he pointed to the smooth trunk of
a komessoe tree, "I shall get up into that tree. Perhaps I may catch
sight of them."

The Javanese dessa-chief was a nimble young fellow, and using his
hands and feet he soon was in the top.

"Can you see anything, Wedono?" cried Verstork.

"No, nothing yet, kandjeng toean," was the man's reply. "But--wait
a bit--Yes, there they are yonder--both of them. They are clambering
along the side of the ravine still after the pigs. But it is a good
way off!"

"Come, gentlemen," said the Controller, "it won't do to sit here,
we must be off at once, we must try and get up to them."

Meanwhile Leendert Grashuis and Theodoor Grenits had been running on
ahead and were pursuing with the indomitable energy and hot enthusiasm
of youth, a small family of pigs consisting of one gigantic boar,
a sow and four young ones.

Helter skelter they rushed on, pursuers and pursued, over and under
rocks, over and right through thorny bushes, sometimes by the side
of the small stream, sometimes in the water in which the animals
would plunge and disappear for a moment in the whirling eddies, and
then reappear again vigorously swimming and struggling. Now and then,
as the beasts were scrambling up the face of a rock, the two hunters
would catch a momentary glimpse of their prey. Then they would try
to steady themselves in order to get a fair shot; but before they
could pull the trigger, the beasts had again disappeared among the
stones and bushes, and then after them again in spite of the heat
and fatigue. This continued for a while until the old boar led his
party up the steep slope of the ravine wall, evidently with the view
of gaining the open field at the top along which they could fly with
greater speed. But, alas for them! that move on the part of their
leader gave the rifles fair play. As soon as the animals began to
ascend they became visible among the stunted grass which grew on
the slope, and two shots resounded almost simultaneously. One of
the little ones, mortally wounded, rolled down the slope and the old
sow flew madly to its assistance. But the pains the poor animal took
to get its young on its legs again and to push it along were all in
vain, her instinct seemed to tell her that she must hurry back along
with the others in order to escape from the deadly bullets. A moment
or two afterwards, another young one lost its footing and began to
stumble down the slope. The mother was on the spot again and trying
to help it along. It was a touching sight indeed to see that mother
defending and taking care of her little one, to see how she strove to
push it along very gently yet very strongly too with her pointed snout,
uttering the while the most loving and encouraging grunts. But hunters
have no bowels of mercy. Scarcely had the pair proceeded a few yards
before the two rifles cracked again, and sow and young one rolled
to the very bottom of the ravine. As she fell she glared defiance at
her enemies, while she kept her eye still fixed on her offspring and
uttered a sharp squeal of warning to her mate above. At that moment
a third shot was fired and the third little pig came rolling down to
the very feet of the hunters.

