The boar thereupon turned to bay uttering the most fearful grunts,
turning up his bristles and drawing back his lips so as to show not
only his formidable tusks but also the teeth which were white as
ivory and sharp as chisels. Another shot was fired but missed and,
when the smoke of the powder had cleared away, the boar and the only
young one which was left had disappeared round a corner.

But Grenits and Grashuis did not for a moment think of leaving him
to escape, and they at once proceeded to clamber up the steep rock in
pursuit. They knew that to cut off the boar's retreat they must gain
the top before him. But they found it no child's play. They kept on
climbing with the most dogged determination; but they found the rocky
slope, upon which even the split hoof of a wild boar could hardly
keep a precarious foothold, a very dangerous path for a foot encased
in a European boot. At length, after almost superhuman efforts, they
had managed to clamber up to the top and, as they panted for breath,
they anxiously looked around; but could discover not a vestige of the
animals they had so painfully pursued. They had no doubt gained the top
of the rock before them and had disappeared in the tangled underwood
which covered the plain. To hunt any further for the fugitives would
be sheer waste of time and of strength. Completely fagged out with
their exertions, the two friends were about to throw themselves
down on the grass under the shadow of some low bushes, when suddenly
Grenits uttered a sharp cry. He found himself face to face with the
terrible wild boar. The animal, on gaining the top of the rock with
its young one, had, likewise exhausted, stretched itself out to rest,
thinking it had shaken off the pursuit of its enemies. Now, however,
it fancied that it was attacked in its very lair, and too weary to
attempt to escape, it turned to bay and, as such animals will do,
when driven to fury, at once assumed the offensive.

Grenits had but just time to jump aside and to bring his rifle into
a position of defence. The boar nimbly avoided the bayonet thrust
which Theodoor aimed at it, and then furiously turning upon his foe,
he charged. It was a very fortunate thing for Grenits that his legs
were encased in stout leather gaiters or else the sharp ripping tusk
would have inflicted a terrible wound. But though the leather resisted
the blow, yet such was the fury of the attack that Grenits lost his
balance, fell backward, and for a second was in the most deadly peril.

