Had he been alone, the furious beast would undoubtedly have flung
itself upon him and in that defenceless position he must have been
ripped open in an instant. Already the boar was darting at his fallen
foe. For an instant Theodoor shuddered as he saw his bloodshot eye
and felt the hot breath of the monster in his face. Then he closed
his eyes and awaited the fatal thrust. But at that moment the beast
uttered a wild grunt of rage and turned away from Grenits to face
another opponent.

All this, though it takes some time to tell, had passed with the
rapidity of lightning; but short though the time was, yet Leendert
Grashuis had been able to shove a cartridge into the breech of his
gun and to bring his sword-bayonet to the charge. He had no chance
of firing however, for the shot would have been much more likely to
injure his prostrate friend than to kill the boar. Not the fraction
of a second was to be lost if he would save Grenits' life. Theodoor,
as we have seen, was already lying helpless on the ground and the next
instant must have been fatal. Then with all his might Grashuis drove
his bayonet at the infuriated creature. The thrust caused a painful
wound but glanced off on the right shoulder blade, while the monster
at once turned to confront this fresh assailant The boar then tried
to deal Grashuis a blow with its prominent tusks, but was caught on
the bayonet. The force of the blow was such that the weapon bent like
a hoop and was driven up to the muzzle into the boar's throat. For
an instant Leendert thought of drawing his weapon back; but at once
seeing the impossibility of doing so he pulled the trigger and the
animal received the entire charge full in the head. With a terrific
bound it sprang back tearing the rifle out of Grashuis' hands, then
it turned round once or twice and fell down twitching convulsively
in the throes of death. A few seconds afterwards, all was over.

All this had passed so quickly that the two friends scarcely realised
what had happened. They stood for a second or two gazing at the
death-struggle as if they were stunned and dazed; but presently the
truth dawned upon them, and they began to understand how dreadful
was the peril from which they had so narrowly escaped. Then they
embraced and congratulated one another most heartily, Theodoor Grenits
especially felt that he had escaped death as by a miracle.

