"No more can I," replied the other. "The reflection from the water
on those rice-fields dazzles me painfully."

"Look yonder--I fancy I can see a hut--surely the cry must have come
from there," said Grashuis.

Just then the cry was heard again, but much more faintly.

"Help! help! toean!"

"That is a woman's voice," repeated Grenits, "she is crying to us
for help."

"But," said Grashuis, "what toeans can she be calling to?"

"What is that to me?" exclaimed Grenits. "Come along, some poor thing
is calling for help. Come along, I don't feel a bit tired now."

Before they hastened away, the two friends cast a look at the ravine,
out of which they had clambered a short time before--and there they
caught sight of their comrades who were following them, and who were,
in their turn, preparing to gain the summit of the rock.

Grenits thereupon fired off his gun, in order to attract their
attention, and when he saw that he had succeeded, he called to them, at
the top of his voice, while he stretched out his arm towards the west:

"There, there!" he cried. Then both hurried away.

"What did Theodoor say?" asked Verstork. "Could you make it out?"

"Not a word," replied van Nerekool, "he was much too far off; but
something strange seems to have happened."

"Come let us hurry on," said Verstork.

The little party then began to toil up the steep. They were not,
however, fired by the same enthusiasm which had inspired their friends,
and thus they took thrice as long to accomplish the ascent. When
they at length reached the summit, they could, in the distance, see
Grenits and Grashuis running at the top of their speed between the
rice-fields. The latter turned for an instant and waved his arm as
if to urge his comrades to greater speed.

"Help! help! toean!" was heard again, but this time the cry was so
faint as to be barely audible.

The two European gentlemen had, however, by this time, got much nearer
to the hut.

"Come on, come on," shouted Grenits, hoping that he would urge his
friends to greater speed.

