Meanwhile Grashuis had seized Singomengolo round the waist and was
attempting to drag him backward.

"I am a bandoelan," said the Javanese spy, somewhat haughtily; "I am
a bandoelan; you gentlemen will be sorry for having threatened me
and laid hands upon me." And, turning to the woman, he said again,
"Come along!"

"Once again, let her go," cried Grenits, and this time in a tone of
voice which plainly showed that he would stand no nonsense and was in
deadly earnest. Indeed he was on the point of bringing down the butt
of his gun crash upon the skull of the Chinaman, when he felt someone
grasping his arm from behind and heard a voice whispering in his ear:

"Take care Theodoor, take care, it is a dangerous thing to meddle
with those opium fellows."

Theodoor looked round, and, to his great surprise, he saw that it
was Mokesuep who thus warned him.

"You, Muizenkop!" cried he. "Where have you sprung from?"

"I lost my way," was the reply. "But for heaven's sake keep cool or
you will get yourself into trouble."

"What do I care," shouted Grenits; "let go my arm, I will soon settle
the matter with that confounded opium spy!"

Singomengolo stood there before him with an indescribable look of
ferocious malice on his evil countenance. He had laid his hand on
the hilt of his kris and, proud and impetuous as he naturally was,
he would undoubtedly have answered any act of violence with a stab
of his knife, if indeed the first blow had not laid him senseless.

For a moment he stood glaring at the European with bold and glittering
eye. Then suddenly he seemed to change his mind. He released the girl's
arm, for, across the rice fields, he now saw another group advancing
rapidly. In this group his quick sight had at once recognised not only
the Controller of Banjoe Pahit but also the wedono of the district,
and at the sight his sallow face grew pale.

"What's all this about?" asked Verstork as he came up to the spot.

"That wretched woman has been smuggling opium, Kandjeng toean,"
replied Singomengolo.

