That was too much for Grenits. "There! there!" he shouted livid with
rage, "there, there! take that." And at the words he dealt the infamous
scoundrel two swinging blows in the face.

"Mr. Grenits! Mr. Grenits," cried Verstork in a dignified manner,
"Do pray control yourself, do not make my official duty more difficult
to perform than it already is."








CHAPTER XX.

A DINNER-PARTY.


A few hours later our sportsmen were seated at table in the pandoppo
of the Controller's house at Banjoe Pahit. Fritz Mokesuep, however,
we need hardly say, was not of the party. William Verstork was a man
who, as a rule, could put up with a good deal; but on this occasion
he had not cared to conceal the aversion with which that individual
inspired him.

As soon as poor Dalima had been properly attended to, and under
escort of a policeman, had been sent off in a tandoe as a prisoner
to Santjoemeh, the Controller had told Mokesuep, in pretty plain
language, that, after what had taken place between him and Grenits,
his company could very well be dispensed with.

"It seems to me," had been Mokesuep's reply, "that the person who
inflicted the insult is the one that ought to stand aside."

"Such, no doubt would, under ordinary circumstances, have been my
opinion also," returned Verstork, with icy coolness; "but before I can
consent to receive you as my guest, you will have to explain to me,
in a satisfactory way, how you came to be in this hut, so far from
the hunting-ground, and just at the time when the young girl was so
shamefully ill-used."

"She has not been--" interrupted Mokesuep.

"Now, pray do not mistake me," resumed Verstork, "I said ill-used,
at the present moment I make use of no stronger expression. We found
her here half-naked and bleeding, and she was calling upon us for
help. She had, therefore, evidently been ill-treated, at present I
say nothing more than that. She suffered this ill-treatment in your
presence--in your presence, who pretend to be a gentleman; and I
repeat what I said just now, you will have to give me satisfactory
proof that it was not in your power to assist or defend this poor
young girl before I will consent to receive you under my roof."

