"But, Mr. Verstork--!"

"If you can clear yourself of the suspicion which, perhaps very
unjustly, at present rests upon you, I can assure you that nothing
will give me greater pleasure than to hold out my hand to you, indeed
you will find me the first to do so, unless my friend Grenits should
forestall me."

"In that case," said Grenits, "Mr. Mokesuep will find me perfectly
prepared to give him any satisfaction he may require."

"Satisfaction!" sneered Mokesuep, "never you mind about that, I know
well enough how to get satisfaction!"

"You refuse then," continued Verstork coldly, "to furnish me with
the explanations I require?"

"I owe you no explanations whatever, Mr. Verstork," cried Mokesuep,
"I intend to reserve my explanations for the Resident's ear."

"Very well, sir, just as you please," replied Verstork. "In that case
I have nothing further to say to you," and with a stiff, formal bow
he added: "Pray let me not detain you any longer."

Mokesuep ground his teeth with rage at this direct dismissal; he
flung his rifle over his shoulder, and, accompanied by Lim Ho and
Singomengolo, who had stood by as silent spectators of the scene,
without understanding much of what was going on, he hurried away in
the direction of Santjoemeh.

As he went he cried, "You shall pay for this, Mr. Verstork. I shall
have my revenge!"

It was a terrible threat, no doubt; but it did not take away the
appetite of our friends; and so, as we have said before, a few hours
after found them seated at the table in the pandoppo of the Controller
at Banjoe Pahit.

The pandoppo of the Controller's house could not, in size or extent, be
compared with the splendid gallery in the stately residential mansion
at Santjoemeh. But, for that very reason, it was more homely and more
comfortable. It lacked the vast empty spaces between the columns,
reminding one of a big market-hall, and it had not the lofty roof which
made one think of a cathedral. It was, in fact, much more like a cosy
sitting-room, and to this air of homely comfort, the tasteful manner
in which Verstork had furnished it, contributed not a little. Indeed,
this pandoppo was Verstork's ordinary sitting-room, and a very pleasant
retreat it was. The big windows, all of them furnished with venetian
blinds, gave free access to the breeze, while, on the sunny side,
they could be closed so as to exclude the heat; and thus within that
gallery it was always deliciously cool. The entire house moreover
was surrounded by trees encircling it as with a crown of verdure, and
their pleasant shade tempered the glaring light of the tropical day.

