There, William Verstork used to sit whenever his presence was not
required in his office. There, at sunrise, he sipped his early cup of
coffee, there he breakfasted and used to dine. There again he was wont
to enjoy his papers and periodicals as in the afternoon he took a cup
of tea, and used to dream away the evenings musing within himself,
and often wondering whether, in such a place, it was well for a man
to be alone.

At any time of the day this pandoppo was a pleasant retreat, and
specially gay and comfortable did it look now when the host had
gathered his friends around his table.

The very table itself contributed to the gaiety and brightness of
the scene.

On that board were displayed the inevitable bowls of rice, cooked
by steaming in conical baskets of bamboo, every grain snow-white,
distinct and separate. And with this standing dish of rice were
served up in small saucers, an endless variety of soups, vegetables,
sauces, pickles, and condiments of all kinds. There were chicken-broth,
fish-soup, and other thicker kinds of soup. Then a variety of dishes
flavoured with Spanish pepper, among which devilled shrimps, devilled
eggs, the celebrated little red-fish of Macassar, the bean of the
Paskia speciosa and the famous "pirate pepper," so called no doubt on
account of its extreme pungency. The more substantial dishes consisted
of meat and fish, such as jerked beef, smoked venison, roast or boiled
joints, boiled and braised fowl, and a delicious fresh water fish,
the Olfromeus Olfax. These and other dishes, too numerous to mention,
are generally served up at a complete and well appointed dinner--or
as they call it in Java--rice table.

But the object which specially attracted the attention of our
Luculluses as they entered the pandoppo, and which made them smack
their lips in anticipation of a rare feast, was a sucking pig which
stood conspicuous in the centre of the table in a capacious dish. It
was roasted whole, was standing upright on its four legs, and had
a lemon in its snout. It was a product of the day's hunting, one of
the first victims, in fact, which had fallen, and had at once been
taken home by one of Verstork's servants to play a prominent part in
the entertainment.

