Every one of the guests did full justice to the good fare, and
all proved themselves to be right valiant trenchermen; but though
the grinders were kept busily at work, and though the palates fully
appreciated the highly flavoured and succulent dishes, yet the tongues
were by no means allowed to remain idle, nor was the conversation
suffered to flag around the hospitable board. The reader may well
believe there was plenty to talk about.

"That confounded Muizenkop!" quoth Theodoor Grenits, "why, the fellow
very nearly made me lose my temper."

"Come, come, don't mention him," replied van Rheijn, "his very name
would take away one's appetite."

"By Jove," cried August van Beneden, "that sucking pig is a most
delicious morsel."

"Very nice, indeed," remarked van Rheijn. "But, how many of those
chaps have we bowled over I wonder?"

"That I cannot tell you," said Verstork.

"But," resumed van Beneden, "we ought to know the number in order
that we may be able to judge in how far our expedition may be called
successful. How shall we find out?"

"Patience, August, patience," said Verstork with a smile.

"All right, William," continued van Beneden, "you know I have no
great stock of that commodity. I wonder how many of those beasts we
have knocked over. I saw a good number of them sprawling about."

"The wedono will be here presently with his report," replied Verstork.

"The wedono! Yes, he has disappeared--where can he have got to?"

"Well," said Verstork, "I ordered him and the two loerahs to make a
careful search in the Djoerang Pringapoes. He will no doubt soon be
here to tell us the result of our day's work."

The words were scarcely spoken, before one of the oppassers came in
to announce the arrival of the dessa-chief.

"Show him in!" cried Verstork.

"Well, Wedono," he continued with a smile, "I see you come to share
our rice-table, that is very kind of you, I am glad to see you."

The Javanese chief, however, had recoiled in terror. Had the
conscientious Mohammedan been a Roman Catholic he would most assuredly
have crossed himself. As it was he merely muttered in the direst
confusion, "Excuse me, Kandjeng toean! You know that we are not
allowed to eat pork."

