"But, you can take something else, Wedono--there is beef on the table
and fowl and duck and fish--anything you like in fact."

"Thank you, Kandjeng toean, thank you; but all these things have
been cooked in the same kitchen as the sucking pig, and, you know
our religion forbids us--"

"I am sorry for it, Wedono," replied Verstork.

"I came here, Kandjeng toean," continued the chief, "to give you my
report of the day's hunting."

"Very well, Wedono!"

"Seventeen pigs great and small have been killed. The Chinamen at
Kaligaweh and at Banjoe Pahit have bought the carcases from the
village people and are now busy carting them away."

"Ah, Wedono, those Chinamen know what is good," said Verstork.

"I suppose so, Kandjeng toean," replied the dessa-chief with a
forced smile.

"That is a pretty good number I think--is it not, Wedono?" remarked
van Rheijn. "Do you think," he continued, "that we have pretty well
exterminated them?"

"Pretty nearly," answered the wedono. "A number of our people have
gone after the pigs that broke away and have dispatched several of
them. There are but a very few left and they have sought for refuge
in the high mountain land, so that I do not think that we shall be
troubled any more by that mischievous brood."

"Well then, my friends," cried Verstork elated at the success of his
expedition, "we may say that we have done a good morning's work. Here's
good luck to Banjoe Pahit and the dessa-folk!"

All the guests sprang to their feet and raised their glasses. Van
Rheijn thrust a tumbler of beer into the wedono's hand--and with a
joyous "hip, hip, hip, hurrah!" a toast was drunk to the inhabitants
of the district who had been delivered from their troublesome visitors.

"Has the Kandjeng toean any further orders for me?" asked the
wedono. "If not I will beg leave to retire."

"Yes, Wedono--there is something else. In the entrance of the Djoerang
Pringapoes there lies a very big old boar, you will know him by his
long tusks--I very much wish to have the head."

