"Excellent, excellent," exclaimed van Beneden, "Une hure de sanglier
à la sauce piquante, that will be a rare treat!"

"Hush, August!" said Verstork and, turning again to the wedono he
continued, "Then further, I want you at once to open the inquiry in
the matter of Dalima."

"Certainly, Kandjeng toean."

"And come to me presently--I must have some talk with you about
that affair."

"Very good, Kandjeng toean."

"Presently," cried van Beneden, "presently why--" and then he struck up


"We won't go home till morning ...
Till daylight doth appear."


The entire company joined in the well-known old tune. When the noise
had somewhat subsided, Verstork continued;

"Duty, my friends, before pleasure. You will presently go and have your
afternoon nap, then you will take a bath. I shall pursue this inquiry
with the help of the wedono. This evening it is my intention to return
to Santjoemeh with you; for the first thing to-morrow morning I must
have an interview with the Resident. You have understood me, Wedono,
have you not?"

"Yes, Kandjeng toean."

"Very good then, I will not detain you."

With a courtly bow, the dessa-chief took leave of the company and
retired.

The dinner went on; but the mention of Dalima had somewhat dashed the
high spirits of the guests. The recollection of the sad event of the
morning seemed to cast a chill over them all and to sober down even
the merriest of the party.

"Poor little Dalima!" sighed Grashuis, after a few moments' silence
during which he had been discussing a duck's wing, "Poor little
Dalima! could she be guilty of smuggling opium?"

"Get along with you," cried van Beneden. "Does that pretty little
thing look like a smuggler?"

"Take care, August," said van Rheijn with a laugh, "a lawyer ought
not to allow himself to be influenced by outward appearance. Am I
not right, Charles?"

Van Nerekool was not there and then ready with an answer to this
appeal; he was in fact busily employed in removing the bones from a
splendid slice of fish. But after a moment's pause he said:

