"Certainly not--yet, for all that I also am firmly persuaded of the
girl's innocence."

"Of course, of course--the baboe of nonna Anna, eh Charles--cela va
sans dire?"

"But," remarked van Rheijn, "the thing that puzzles me is that the
opium was found upon her."

"Do you believe that?" asked another.

"Well I don't know what to say, there is Muizenkop's testimony."

"What! would you take that scoundrel's word?"

"Aye, aye," said Verstork very seriously, "the whole business looks
ugly enough."

"As far as I can see," said Grashuis, "there is but one hope left,
and that is that nonna Anna may have influence enough with her father
to get the affair hushed up."

A bitter smile curled van Nerekool's lip, but he uttered not a word.

"Now if Lim Ho, the son of the opium farmer, were not mixed up in the
matter," said Verstork musingly, "why then you might have some reason
for that hope--yes--then I think things might be squared; but now--"

"But," exclaimed van Beneden interrupting his friend, "can you for
a moment suspect that the judicial power--?"

"My dear friend--my good August," replied Verstork, "a highly placed
judicial functionary here in Dutch India once spoke these words:
'The opium trade lies upon this country as a heavy curse--it has
impressed its stamp upon everything, alas, even upon our courts of
justice.' I think I am right, Charles?"

Van Nerekool nodded affirmatively.

"Well," said van Rheijn, "all that is very sad, a very sad state of
things indeed; but the worst of it is that the use of opium makes
opium-farming a necessary evil."

"What nonsense you do talk!" cried Grenits impatiently.

"But Theodoor!"

"But Edward!"--

"If the abuse of opium did not exist, then surely there would at once
be an end of opium-farming. You will allow that I think?"

"Oh yes," replied Grenits, "that sounds very plausible no doubt;
but now supposing I were to retort by saying if there were no
opium-monopoly then the abuse of the drug would never have assumed
its present proportions? That does not perhaps sound so pleasant;
but it is a statement which is more easily verified."

