"Oh yes, yes, we heard all about that last night; unfortunately
however, the proof was not forthcoming."

"Well," said Grenits, "what does history say?"

"History," replied the other, "what you call history is neither more
nor less than the personal opinion and utterance of the historian. One
man contends that Europeans brought opium into the country, and
another holds a different view--so much for history."

"But Edward, I hope you do not distrust the Council of India?"

"Well what does the Council say, Theodoor?"

"If my memory serves me, it says this, or words to this effect:
'The opium monopoly has always been most anxiously watched by the
Government as one of the most important sources of public revenue,
and every means of enhancing the productiveness of that source of
income has been most eagerly adopted.'"

"Aye, aye," returned van Rheijn; "but is all this true?"

"Why," said Grenits, "I hope, Edward, you do not doubt my word?"

"Not in the least, my dear fellow, not in the least. I am quite ready
to admit that your quotation is accurate; but was the Council properly
informed when it gave that opinion?"

"Well," replied Grenits, "if you go on like that, then we shall not
be able to trust anybody or anything. Those people are paid, and most
handsomely paid, to get the best and most trustworthy information. But
independently altogether of the Council's opinion, in which you seem
to have but little faith, tell me, does not the constantly rising
revenue from the farming of opium afford proof absolute of the truth
of the Council's word? Every successive year the estimate is higher
and higher."

"I know that," said van Rheijn, "but estimate and actual produce are
widely different things."

"True enough, they are sometimes widely different; but in this
particular case they are not. Heaven and earth are moved to reach the
figure at which the minister has estimated the revenue, and means
the most unfair, even the most criminal, are employed in order, if
possible, to surpass the sum at which the revenue has been placed. How
many a Netherland's Lion has been given away because, in this district
or in that, the produce of the opium contract has exceeded the figure
at which the minister put it! How proudly must the 'Virtus Nobilitat'
thus earned glitter upon the breast of its possessor!"

