"But I want to know," remarked August van Beneden, "is the use of
opium really as injurious to the body as men say it is? We saw with
our own eyes last night that as far as morality is concerned it
has not much to recommend it; but how about its influence upon the
material body? We sometimes hear the word poisoning used; that very
term indeed was made use of last night, but it seems to me that it
is a system of poisoning under which a man may attain to a very good
old age, just as a man may grow old who drinks a glass or two of grog."

"Listen to me," said Verstork in a most serious tone. "We are sitting
here together, all, I hope, honest trustworthy men I can therefore
speak my mind freely and fearlessly before you, and I may without
reserve give you the conclusion to which a long and richly varied
experience has led me on the subject of opium.

"The habitual use of opium, even in comparatively moderate doses,
invariably leads to vitiation of the blood and constriction of the
vessels. This again gives rise to an asthmatic condition and to a
permanent and wasting and almost always incurable dysentery. These
are accompanied by the most distressing symptoms and intolerable
suffering. Upon the opium smoker, moreover, medicines begin gradually
to lose their effect, excepting the narcotic poisons in ever
increasing quantities. Hence the sufferer is driven to seek relief
in augmented doses of the poison, and if he cannot obtain these,
his condition becomes utterly unbearable. Yet to this suffering he
is doomed, unless he can pass from one fit of intoxication to the
other. Opium smoking is the only thing to alleviate the miseries of
the collapse which follows an opium debauch, and but few can afford
the continual drain of so expensive a remedy. Where a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food is taken, these lamentable results
may be slow in showing themselves; and a generous and strengthening
diet has preserved many a man, for an entire lifetime, from the most
serious consequences of his pernicious habit. But even in these cases,
the state of the blood and the general condition of health are so bad,
that trifling ailments, such as an ordinary boil or a slight wound,
assume a most malignant character and often lead to fatal results;
and who can venture to say how many diseases, which depend upon
cachexia and which are so common in this country, are caused, or,
at all events, are greatly aggravated by the habitual use of opium?

