"I spoke just now of a sufficient quantity of nutritive food; but we
know too well--and the Government also knows it--that but very few of
the natives can afford a supply of food which can be called either
sufficient or nutritious. It is well known how exceedingly meagre
the diet of the Javanese is, even among those who are in tolerably
good circumstances; and it is well known also that, even when he
can afford it, he very seldom makes use of food which is really
strengthening. And that diet, be it more or less generous, must of
necessity become more and more meagre when every day a considerable,
and ever more considerable portion of the wages is squandered in the
purchase of opium. Thus the enjoyment itself tends to make impossible
the only condition under which it might be indulged in with anything
like impunity.

"But, you will doubtless object--in such cases lack of money must
compel these people to limit themselves to a very moderate consumption,
and they will thus be preserved from the fatal effects of excessive
indulgence. Such, however, is not always the case. There are men,
and their number is by no means small, who in the days of their
prosperity have gradually accustomed themselves to a very considerable
consumption of the drug; and who, when all their worldly possessions
have vanished in clouds of intoxicating smoke, have been compelled
either to satisfy themselves with diminished doses of opium or
else to abstain from smoking altogether. It is difficult to fathom
the hopeless misery of such poor creatures. Further, experience has
proved, that very many whose daily consumption is strictly moderate,
yet at forty years of age and upwards suffer frightfully from the
ill effects of opium, especially of the most painful and incurable
dysentery. I myself have at Berbek, at Trengalek, at Santjoemeh, here
at Banjoe Pahit and elsewhere, cured a great number of such sufferers
with a certain remedy, and thus I have had ample opportunity to make
myself personally acquainted with the facts.

