"And then," continued Verstork, after a pause, "and then the poverty
and destitution which the use of opium entails! What an amount of
prosperity and welfare has already been,--and is daily being--swallowed
up by the use of that baneful drug! Among the lower classes, an opium
smoker, even though he smokes in strict moderation, very soon arrives
at the point when he must devote his entire earnings to the purchase
of the drug, while at the same time his craving for refreshing
and stimulating dainties must likewise be satisfied. The families
are legion in which the wife, assisted perhaps by one or two of her
children, is the only breadwinner. Should she happen to be in delicate
health, should she be disabled by sickness or childbed, why then the
misery of such a household is unfathomable. And, believe me, such
cases of extreme misery are much more frequent out here than similar
cases of destitution in Europe occasioned by the abuse of drink.

"Now all these powers, bodily, mental, and moral; and all that
prosperity, which at present opium saps and destroys, might be devoted
to industry and agriculture. If such use were made of them, how much
greater would be both production and consumption, and how much more
considerable would be the profit to the exchequer--a profit earned in a
fair and legitimate way--than any revenue which the accursed system of
opium farming can produce! Thousands upon thousands of the natives here
have neither the energy, nor the means, nor the inclination to work or
to learn how they may profitably cultivate their gardens and fields,
neither do they care to progress in any branch of industry whatever;
because they have offered up--and are continually offering--all they
possess in the world to opium. But, are not industry and agriculture
the very life-blood of a State? Yet here, the state itself does all
it possibly can to poison that life-blood, and thus to bring about
its own destruction."

William Verstork here paused for awhile, after so long an oration, he
felt the necessity of quenching his thirst with a glass of beer. All
his guests sat silently waiting for what he might further have to
say. His words had evidently made a very deep impression upon his
hearers, for the language to which they had listened was the simple and
unvarnished tale of actual experience; and, however young and heedless
some of them might be, yet the speech of their friend had awakened
their interest, and had gone straight to their hearts. At length,
after having drawn a long breath, the Controller went on to say:

