"You know, my friends, that my official career has not been passed
entirely at Santjoemeh. My probationary time I spent in the capital
of the Kediri residence. As second-class controller I was some time at
Berbek and at Trenggalek. I know, therefore, from personal experience
how matters stand in those residencies also. Now listen to me. Kediri
has a population of about 700,000 souls--the vast majority of them
very poor people. In that place the opium contract produces eighteen
hundred thousand guilders. If to that sum we add the price paid for
the drug delivered to the farmer, and the profits which he makes on
the sale then, I think, we shall be well within the mark if we put
down two and a half millions of guilders as the sum which those poor
people, of their own free will, pay annually to purchase a few hours
a day of enjoyment and oblivion. I say nothing now about the cost of
smuggled opium; the amount paid for it is not known, and every one
must, therefore, form his own opinion of that. How is it possible for a
population so poor to find so large a sum of money, in addition, mind
you, to all their other burdens, such as compulsory labour, salt-tax,
rent, licenses, import duties, &c.? That is a mystery to me--but then
you should see what kind of a life is that of a poor Javanese family.

"Their house is generally very small, built of bamboo and covered
with straw. Furniture they have none whatever; a mat spread out on
a bamboo bench, and a coarse pillow is what they sleep on. They cook
their food on the ground in pots and pans of the commonest earthenware;
they eat it on pisang leaves with their fingers; they drink water out
of an earthenware pitcher. They seldom, we may say never, wash their
clothes which, such as they are, they continue to wear until they fall
in rags from their bodies. The children run about naked, and grow up in
the mud among the bullocks. At five o'clock in the morning they rise
and go to work so as to be present in time for roll-call at six. They
work for their masters, in the rice-fields, at road-making, in the
coffee plantations, or in the osier-beds. Should a man get a day off,
he may go and work on his own account, and then he can earn about 40
or 50 cents (10 pence) for ten hours' labour. When they get home in
the evening, they have their morsel of food and fully half the day's
earning is spent on opium. At eight o'clock all are fast asleep, and up
to eight o'clock the only lamp they have in the hut is a saucer with a
cotton wick in a little stinking oil. Such is the faithful picture of
the daily life of a Javanese opium smoker. Nothing--absolutely nothing
to make the slightest break in this weary monotony. Nothing but work,
hard work; mostly for insufficient wages, very frequently compulsory
labour for no wages at all. And then, behind their backs to be called
a pack of lazy scoundrels! That is a little too bad. Tell me, have
we Dutch any feeling at all for our fellow-creatures? Is it not at
length high time that all that compulsory and unpaid labour should be
done away with and that the opium-curse should be banished from the
land? Every right-minded Dutchman ought to do his best according to
the utmost of his power to attain that end, because every Dutchman is
personally and individually responsible for so frightful a state of
things, and every Dutchman ought to be heartily ashamed of himself
while the poor patient Javanese are being so shamefully imposed
upon. All that the poor native can earn either by his work for his
masters or in his own free time, he must, in one shape or other,
offer up to that insatiable Moloch, the public treasury. There is
but one thing left for him, and that is a little rice; and of that
he has not enough to last him for the whole year."

