"Yes," observed Grenits, when Verstork had finished speaking, "yes,
William, you are perfectly right, and that is the reason why he
seeks for consolation and temporary oblivion in the opium den, just
as in Holland a poor man in similar circumstances flies for relief
to the bottle. Thus cause and effect act and react upon one another;
misery suggests opium or drink, and drink and opium in their turn
engender misery. It requires a very powerful effort of the will to
shake off either bad habit, and drink and opium are the very things
which deprive a man of whatever power of will he may have. Therefore
it is perfectly hopeless to expect the people to take the initiative in
any such reforms as Verstork has mentioned; the evil keeps on spreading
and is daily striking deeper roots. The ruling power ought to exercise
its authority and drag these poor degraded people out of the slough of
despond in which so many of them are wallowing. It ought to do this,
I say, regardless of cost and trouble; and regardless also of the
pain it may for the moment inflict. Every right-minded citizen ought,
according as he is able, to assist the government in that arduous
task, and whoever would, for selfish motives, strive to retard or
to frustrate this plan of rescue ought at once to be put aside and
rendered harmless. If Holland and Dutch India cannot continue to exist,
or to speak more correctly, cannot continue to pay their way without
screwing a revenue out of such immoral sources as abuse of opium,
abuse of drink and unpaid compulsory labour--why then for honour of
the country it were better that it should do like the man who is no
longer able to maintain, by honest means, a separate home of his own,
and go and live as a boarder in the house of another."

For a few moments all sat silent. They all felt the truth, the
undeniable truth of Theodoor's words, though his concluding sentence
had most deeply wounded their patriotic pride. At length van Beneden
started up from his seat, and going up to Verstork he took his hand
and pressed it cordially.

