"Aye, aye," continued Grashuis, "I know that well; but we all of us
intend to participate in the good work, do we not?"

"By all means!" was the general cry.

"Well then, listen to me, for now I come to the proposal I have to
make. In this case there can be no question of offering our friend
van Beneden any honorarium--that would deprive his labour of love
of its chief merit. But in carrying on this defence many expenses
will necessarily be incurred and many fees will have to be paid in
advance. We all know that Dame Justice is in India an expensive--a
most expensive hussy. Well then, let us all join hands and undertake
to find the funds that may be required--then August will be able to
carry on both cases in the most effectual and vigorous manner."

"Agreed, agreed!" they all exclaimed. "Now, August, do your best!"

"Now that we have arranged that business," resumed Grenits, "I have
a question to put to our host."

"By all means, Theodoor," said Verstork, "what is it?"

"I am a merchant," said Grenits, "and as such, I am bound to be
very inquisitive. In trade I not only need all the information I can
obtain about any article of commerce; but I find a little chemistry
uncommonly useful--"

"Come to the point," cried several of the guests; "we don't want any
lectures on chemistry and commerce!"

But Grenits, without paying any heed to the interruption, went on:
"Just now in your speech you made mention of a certain remedy which
I think you said you found useful in curing some unhappy slaves to
opium. Is that, may I ask, a secret remedy?"

"A secret remedy?" asked Verstork, with a laugh. "What do you mean--do
you take me for a quack-doctor?"

"Not by any means," replied Grenits. "Since this remedy then is not
a secret one, will you tell me what it is?"

"With pleasure," said Verstork; "they are pills which were given me by
a missionary. They are composed of opium and radix rhei or rhubarb, in
the following proportions: Twelve of these pills contain three grains
of opium and twelve grains of rhubarb. They are to be administered
every five days; the first time twelve have to be taken, the next time
nine, the third time six, but it is very seldom indeed that the third
dose is required, for by that time the patients are generally cured."

