"And," persisted Grenits, "can you actually vouch for their efficacy?"

"To be sure I can," replied Verstork. "In my study you will find a
kind of trophy consisting of a dozen bedoedans or opium-pipes which
the smokers have deposited with me with the solemn promise that they
would never touch the pipe again. The missionary who gave me the
pills can speak most positively of upwards of seventy cures."

"Now," asked Grenits, "you will not be offended if I give you a
bit of advice in your own interest and in the interest also of the
missionary?"

"Certainly not," said Verstork, "let us hear it, by all means."

"Well, my advice is this: keep that prescription strictly to yourself
and don't say a word about it to anybody. The colonial secretary who
has but one object in view, and that is, to raise the opium revenue
as much as possible, might look upon your remedy as an attack made
upon the golden calf; and missionaries have before this been impeded
in their Gospel work, and men have been expelled from the colonies,
and official functionaries have been suspended or pensioned off for
the commission of much more venial offences than bringing such pills
as yours to the opium-smoker."

Verstork turned slightly pale as he heard his friend's well-meant
advice. For a single moment his thoughts flew to those dear ones who
so greatly needed his assistance and support. Did he repent of having
thus honestly spoken his mind? Who can say!--He put his hand to his
forehead as if to wipe away some unpleasant reflection. "Oh," said he,
"it is not quite so bad as that, I hope."

"Perhaps not," said Grenits, with a smile, "but your pills will not
earn you the Netherlands' Lion."

"That may be," said the Controller, "however, Fais ce que dois,
advienne que pourra, that is my motto. For all that I shall not give
the poor souls one pill the less."

Then, allowing his eye to wander over the table which by this time
had been pretty well cleared, for our friends had sat down to dinner
as hungry as hunters, he continued--

