The Controller sat down, while the resident at his desk turned his
back to the light and began reading the document. Outside the office,
a couple of police oppassers were pacing up and down, attracted, no
doubt, to the spot by the high tone of voice in which the conversation
had been carried on. In a moment or two van Gulpendam again broke
out--"I thought as much--I had been warned of this--" But, checking
himself, he said no more, and went on reading.

"Resident," said Verstork, "may I beg leave to inquire against what
you have been warned?"

Van Gulpendam looked up over the sheet of paper he held in his hand,
and fixing his eye on the controller's face which was turned to the
light, he said, with an assumed air of dignity:

"Mr. Verstork, you really ought to try and cure yourself of
the bad habit you seem to have contracted of interrogating your
superiors. Believe me that kind of thing makes a very bad impression. I
do not mind telling you what warning I have received, not, mind you,
because you demand the information; but because I consider it only
fair that you should know. It will probably bring you to the conclusion
that you had better take back this report and modify it altogether."

"Modify my report, Resident?" exclaimed Verstork; but, without noticing
the interruption, van Gulpendam continued:

"I have been informed that you intend to represent matters in such
a light as to make it appear that a successful attempt has been made
on the honour of this Javanese girl.

"But, Resident," said Verstork, very gravely, "this question concerns a
person who is in your service, who is the baboe--I may almost say--the
companion, of your own daughter."

"And who, as such," said van Gulpendam, interrupting him, "ought
to be a person of unblemished character. I quite agree with you
there. Unfortunately, she is nothing of the kind. Only a few days ago
she was roaming about outside the house for the whole night, and then
came in with a long rigmarole about a forcible abduction of which she
pretended to have been the victim. Now again, for the second time,
she is out at night, and this time she is found in the possession of
opium. She is the daughter of a smuggler--you know that as well as I
do, seeing that on Saturday last there was a murder committed in her
father's house, of which, luckily, you sent me timely notice. She is
engaged to be married to another opium smuggler; and now it has been
proved that she is a smuggler herself. At present she is safe under
lock and key, and I am glad of it, as it will spare me the trouble
of driving the brazen-faced slut out of my premises."

