"It is not?"

"No, Resident."

"Well, for all that," said van Gulpendam, airily, "I advise you to
heave to."

"To heave to? I don't understand you," said Verstork, though all the
time he understood perfectly.

"I will express my meaning in plainer terms," returned van Gulpendam,
very deliberately, "I advise you, as I have done already, to take
back this report and to modify it."

"Why should I do so, Resident? Why do you give me that advice?"

"Because, in the first place, the facts mentioned in it are twisted,
exaggerated, and represented from a prejudiced and partial point
of view."

"Resident!" interrupted Verstork.

But without heeding him van Gulpendam went on:

"In fact that paper reads like a sensational report, which evidently
is aimed at attaining some ultimate object. And then again there
occur in it passages which most certainly will be highly displeasing
to the Government. Here, for instance, is one of them:"

The Resident turned over the leaves of the document, and seemed to
be looking for a certain passage; having found it he read as follows:

"Allow me also to state that my official career of twelve years has
taught me that the opium-monopoly is an imperium in imperio; that
in order to promote the opium-trade everything the people loves and
honours is trampled upon and trodden under foot. The opium-farmer
does not trouble himself in the least about police regulations or
about penal statutes, his satellites simply enter people's houses and
violate the right of domicile; his spies and his policemen--at all
events the police which he has in his pay--have no scruples whatever,
and pay no respect to anything. A European would make himself liable
to severe punishment were he to treat the natives in the manner in
which the refuse of mankind, if only they are in the opium-farmer's
employ, dares to treat them. These opium-agents have respect neither
for the husband, the wife, nor the daughter. In the houses, aye even
on the public roads, they strip them, they search them in the most
disgusting manner, and never trouble themselves about any protest
at all. These scoundrels, sheltering themselves under the impunity
which the opium monopoly casts over them, inflict upon the natives
the most horrible insults frequently to satisfy their own passions,
sometimes merely for the purpose of revenge. A sad proof of this is
the treatment to which the Javanese girl, Dalima, has been subjected."

