The Resident paused here for an instant and fixed a penetrating glance
upon his subordinate; but the latter as steadily returned his gaze.

"You see," he continued, "when I read such rant as that, then I
am forced to suspect"--and here the high functionary significantly
tapped his forehead with his finger--"that there is something wrong
with you here!"

"Resident! exclaimed Verstork, "you are forgetting yourself!"

"Not at all, my dear sir, for by writing thus, what do you in fact
tell me, in so many words? What but this: that in your districts these
domiciliary visits and these searches on the high roads are necessary
to prevent the illegal sale of opium. You know, even better than I
do, that quite lately there have in your districts been several very
ugly revelations. I have only to call to your mind the capture at
Moeara Tjatjing, the capture at Kaligaweh in the house of Pak Ardjan,
and now again smuggled opium is found with Setrosmito and with his
daughter Dalima. Suspicions may perhaps have arisen in my mind that
Banjoe Pahit is a hot-bed of smuggling; but now your most intemperate
language confirms my worst fears."

"Resident!" cried Verstork no longer able to contain himself, "however
great is the respect which I am bound to feel for your mature judgment,
yet I cannot allow these words of yours to pass without protesting
against them. For, in the first place, you insinuate that I have been
guilty of neglect of duty with regard to the opium-traffic, and,
in the next, you suggest that this neglect of duty on my part has
made Banjoe Pahit a hot-bed of the smuggling-trade. I am, however,
perfectly well acquainted with the duties which the Order of 1867
imposes upon me, and, allow me to assure you, I am too conscientious
to neglect those duties."

"My dear Mr. Verstork, I did not intend----" interrupted van Gulpendam.

"Give me leave to continue," resumed Verstork; "I have been attacked,
I now defend myself against your imputations, it is my duty to do so,
and I claim it as my right. I positively and utterly deny that Banjoe
Pahit is a hot-bed of smuggling."

