"Do you intend to tell me then," cried van Gulpendam, "that no
smuggling is carried on there?"

"I do nothing of the kind, Resident," replied Verstork, "were I to do
so that would be saying what I know to be untrue. My district lies
right along the open and everywhere accessible coast of the Java
sea. The laws which control the illegal traffic in opium are, as you
are aware, wholly insufficient; and, even such as they are, we have
not the power to carry out the laws effectually. No wonder then that
the smugglers--and, as you know, the opium-farmers themselves are the
chief offenders--no wonder, I say, that the smugglers make the most of
this lax state of things. It stands to reason that it should be so;
but if you compare the illegal trade which goes on at Banjoe Pahit
with the smuggling in the adjoining districts which lie along the same
sea-coast, then I maintain that you will find that my district, far
from being as you would have it, a hot-bed of smuggling, contrasts,
in that respect, very favourably with the others. Now, as regards
the cases to which you have twice alluded, I, as controller of the
district, have very carefully investigated them; and I now give it you
as my deliberate opinion that the opium discovered at Moeara Tjatjing
was put on shore by the boats of the schooner brig Kiem Ping Hin,
a vessel which, you know, does not stand in the odour of sanctity;
whilst the other two concern but very minute quantities of the drug
which assuredly would never have been found at all, had the bandoelans
been previously themselves well searched."

"That is all very fine, Mr. Verstork," replied van Gulpendam, "but for
the present it carries us too much into detail. To come to the point,
however, I now again repeat my friendly advice, go about, go about,
and take back this report."

William Verstork sat there pale as death. For a moment he covered
his eyes with his hands as if he would exclude some painful vision,
and he reflected. The thought of his mother, of his sisters and
brothers, came up vividly before him, and ran like a red-hot iron
through his brain. He fully grasped the purport of the advice he
had heard. He knew perfectly well that it was not only a counsel,
but also a threat, a threat moreover from an all-powerful superior
to a helpless subordinate. For one moment--to his honour be it said,
it was but for one moment--he hesitated; then his strong natural
sense of duty resumed its sway.

