"Resident," said he in a gentle and low, but yet in a perfectly steady
voice, "what would be your opinion of me if I were to give way and
follow your counsel? What would you think of me if I were to take
back my report? I say nothing now of the violence which I thus would
be doing to my sense of common honesty."

"Sirrr!" roared van Gulpendam in a passion.

"Would you not, in that case, consider me wholly unfit for the position
which I at present occupy; would you not feel the deepest contempt for
my character, and would not your sense of duty urge you at once to
request me to retire from my country's service? At any rate, I know
that you could never again, from that moment, place the slightest
confidence in me. Is not that true? And yet the position I occupy
imperatively demands that I should enjoy the fullest confidence of
my superior officer."

Mr. van Gulpendam had by this time recovered his temper, he could
not help feeling the force of Verstork's words.

"You take the whole business," said he in his most conciliatory manner,
"much too seriously. Now, just see how I look upon it. Yesterday you
gentlemen had a most fatiguing day's hunting. I make no doubt that
now and then the pocket-flask was appealed to--of course it was, and
very naturally too. After the hunt was over, a jolly sociable dinner,
at which strong, heady Haantjes beer and heavy Baour wine--perhaps
even generous champagne circulated pretty freely. No harm in that,
all that is the most natural thing in the world. Amongst young people
one could expect nothing else. Well--in that happy frame of mind you
sat down to write your report--that is how I look upon it."

"Indeed, Resident," replied Verstork, "that report of mine then seems
to have made no impression upon you, than that either I was not right
in the head, or that I wrote it under the influence of liquor?"

"Mr. Verstork, my dear sir, you have such a queer way of blurting
out things. Believe me, I have but one object in view, and that is
to prevent you--in your own interest mind you--to commit an act of
folly. It is for you to say whether you are prepared to withdraw this
report--yes or no. To this I have but a single word to add, and that
is: that your entire career depends upon your present decision."

