Verstork heaved a deep sigh. He saw only too clearly that, in whatever
way he might decide to act, his position was an exceedingly difficult
one. But for all that he would not retrace one step on the straight
path upon which he had entered, which he knew was the path of truth
and honour, and very quietly, but very firmly he said:

"Resident, my decision is taken. Come what will, I refuse to take
back my report."

"Is that your final decision?"

"It is, Resident."

"Now think it well over--is that your last word?"

"Resident, it is."

"Be it so," said van Gulpendam with apparent resignation, "you will
have no one but yourself to blame for the consequences."

"I am prepared to meet the consequences, Resident."

"Very well, in that case I shall have to send up the paper in its
present state to the Governor General--the matter will then be in
his hands."

Verstork was preparing to rise and take his leave, thinking that the
painful interview was at an end.

"One moment please, Mr. Verstork," said the Resident. "Just sit down
for another few minutes--I have another account to settle with you."

"What is that, Resident?" asked the Controller.

"Yesterday morning a highly respected inhabitant of the island was
publicly insulted and even suffered personal violence, merely because,
at your bidding, he bore testimony to the truth. That abuse and that
ill-treatment he suffered in your presence and you did not, so far
as I am aware, exercise your authority either to prevent it or to
put a stop to it."

"It was all the work of an instant," replied Verstork; "the words were
uttered and the blows were dealt so suddenly and so unexpectedly, that
no one--not even you--had you been present--could have interposed. I
can assure you that had there been the slightest fear of the offence
being repeated, I would have stepped in to prevent it."

"I know nothing about all that," said van Gulpendam coldly. "I only
know that abusive words were uttered and blows were dealt, while you,
the superior officer, stood by. That is how the matter stands. Now if
I could only have suggested to the authorities that our young hunters
were in a state of excitement and that the action was merely one of
youthful indiscretion."

