"No, Resident, not so," exclaimed Verstork, "not at all--not at least
under the influence of that particular kind of excitement which you
were kind enough to suggest just now."

"It was done therefore in cold blood! I am obliged, Mr. Verstork,
to take notice of that fact; you see even if I were disposed to be
lenient, your own words deprive me of the power of hushing the matter
up. All this, I fear, is not much in your favour, sir, and your friend,
who seems so ready with his fists, will thank you no doubt for your
testimony to his sobriety."

"My friend!" cried Verstork, "what has he got to do with all this?"

"What has he got to do with it? Why he will find that out soon enough
I fear. I have here lying before me a formal accusation, which I
hoped I might be able quietly to shelve and say no more about; but
now, I must forward it to the authorities. You see, Mr. Verstork,
you might have avoided all this unpleasantness."

"Ah, Resident," replied Verstork very bitterly, "I begin to see that
Mr. Mokesuep has not allowed the grass to grow under his feet. Be all
that, however, as it may. If you think that this trifling occurrence
must be followed up--very well then, let the law have its course! I
shall be the very first to appear as a witness."

The Resident uttered a strange short laugh; but made no reply.

Verstork rose from his seat.

"Have you any further orders, sir?" he said with a formal bow.

"None at present, Mr. Verstork."

"Then I beg to wish you a very good morning."

A slight nod from the Resident, who still kept his seat at his desk,
was the only reply to his greeting.

The next moment Verstork was walking down the steps of the mansion
muttering to himself as he went, "Poor mother, poor sisters!"

"Stupid ass," said van Gulpendam to himself. "Yes, an arrant fool
indeed! Now that that booby won't come to terms the business will
require a little more piloting. Never mind, I have friends in Batavia
who know how to get such questions safe into harbour; men who knew
how to make General van der Heijden disappear, and who will not think
much of this little job. Forward! is the word--at the end of it all
there is the 'Virtus Nobilitat.'"

