A short time after, Verstork sat down to dinner with his friend van
Nerekool. The latter was the only one at home since van Rheijn had
sent word that pressing business would keep him at the office and
that he could therefore not be in to dinner. The two friends were
discussing the events of the former day and the result also of the
morning's interview with the Resident. The Controller was so utterly
downcast and disheartened, that van Nerekool, who himself was not in
the best of spirits, yet felt that he must try and cheer him up and
put some courage into him.

"Come, William, old fellow," he said, "don't hang your head so
sadly. You would almost make me think that you repent of the course
of action you have taken."

"Repent, Charles," cried the other, very sadly and yet without a
sign of hesitation. "Repent? no never, if it were all to do again
I would, in every respect, act as I have done. But, my poor mother,
my poor sisters!"

"Don't look at things so darkly," said van Nerekool.

"So darkly did you say? Why--the very best thing that can happen is
that I shall be transferred to some other place--that I shall be torn
out of the sphere of work to which here I have become accustomed."

"Well," said Charles, "and suppose that should happen?"

"Why, that in itself is already a grave misfortune; you know how
expensive moving is in India. Then comes the question, where shall
I be sent to? You do not suppose that they will give me a lucrative
place. For years and years I shall have to face very serious pecuniary
difficulties and, meanwhile, it will be impossible for me to do for
my dear family that which it has now so long been my pleasure to do."

"Come, come," replied Charles van Nerekool, "cheer up! Even if it
comes to the worst, some remedy will be found for that at least--I
can promise you so much at least."

"But, my dear Charles--that is the smallest misfortune that can happen
to me. Every other possibility is simply terrible. Just think--what
if they dismissed me from the service altogether?"

