






CHAPTER XXII.

A SALE AT BANJOE PAHIT.


On a Saturday evening, about a fortnight after, a great number
of young people were assembled in the open air at the round table
before the verandah of Concordia, the club at Santjoemeh. It was a
gala-night and consequently all the élite of Santjoemeh had turned
out. The gentlemen were for the most part inside the club-house,
or strolling about within the grounds, the ladies, either on foot
or reclining in elegant carriages, were promenading and enjoying
the splendid evening which the full moon, at nine o'clock high up
in the heavens, rendered still more delightful, and listening to the
excellent music of the band.

Within the club-house were seated some elderly ladies and gentlemen,
gravely and solemnly playing a game at cards; the young people lounged
in the front gallery, while the gayer and more restless spirits among
them sought the open air and were, as we said above, grouped round
the table in front of the outer gallery. There they found themselves
in full view of the ladies whose glances they were glad to receive
and ready to repay with interest.

"Look yonder," cried one of this group, "there goes pretty little
Celine with her mother and her aunt!"

"Yes," replied another, "and Hermance on horseback; I think her a
much prettier girl."

"I say, look out! there comes the Resident's carriage."

"Aye, I see with fair Laurentia. She is no doubt coming to take
a hand. Just look how attentive van Rheijn is to her. Quite the
gallant--he is helping her down--now he offers his arm!"

"Of course! the njonja of Kandjeng toean Resident!"

"You may say what you like but she is a monstrous fine woman--I envy
that fellow Edward!"

"I grant you--she is a splendid woman--but she is not a patch upon
her daughter."

"You are right there," cried another. "By the way where can nonna
Anna have got to? One sees her nowhere now."

"I am told she is gone on a visit to a friend--they say to spend a
few weeks with the wife of the Assistant Resident of Karang Anjer."

