"What Karang Anjer in Bagelen? That is a deuce of a way off! Is there
anything wrong with her?"

"Why, don't you know? Van Nerekool has proposed and been refused--and
it appears that until Charles can get some other appointment elsewhere,
the Resident wants to keep his daughter out of the way."

"What do you say?" asked another, "Charles van Nerekool going
away--what in the world is that for?"

Just then Grenits, who had been sitting some time in the reading-room
of the Club, came up to the group of young men with a newspaper in
his hand.

"Good evening, Theodoor!" was the general cry; for the young
merchant was very much liked by all, and exceedingly popular among
the members. "Have you got any news that you are walking about with
the Santjoemeh Herald?"

"Listen to me, gentlemen," said Grenits as he slowly unfolded his
paper and began to read:

"'Messrs. Gladbach and Co., will sell by public auction on Monday
the 24th inst., the whole of the Furniture and Effects belonging to
William Verstork, Esq., Controller at Banjoe Pahit. The principal
items include: seats, rocking and easy chairs, tables, marble-topped
consoles, mirrors, paintings, lamps of all descriptions, terra-cotta
statuettes, awnings, screens, bedsteads and bedroom furniture
complete--wash-stands, wardrobes, linen-presses, cupboards, kitchen
and stable furniture--all in excellent preservation and as good as
new. Further a splendid collection of plants such as roses, crotons,
ferns, &c., in pots and ornamental tubs. One Bengal cow with calf in
full milk, a considerable quantity of poultry; turkeys, geese, ducks,
fowls and pigeons. Several carriages all nearly new--a well-trained
saddle horse, a pair of iron-grey carriage horses, a pair ditto,
black Battakkers. Messrs. Gladbach & Co. are prepared to supply
full particulars, catalogues and conditions of sale. Nota Bene. On
Monday next from 7.30 to 8.30 carriages will start from the green at
Santjoemeh to convey intending purchasers to and from Banjoe Pahit
free of cost.'"

