As Grenits concluded, his hearers looked at one another in some
surprise.

"Come, that's not a bad idea," said one, "that free conveyance is a
capital dodge."

"Verstork going to leave!" cried another. "Where is he off to--it
seems he is going to sell even his saddle-horse."

"He is going to Atjeh," replied Grenits. "He won't want a horse there."

"To Atjeh! why that is impossible" cried another, "the army is in
charge there, there can be no vacancy in that place for a civilian
like Verstork!"

"I know nothing at all about it--I can only tell you what William
has told me. But, in order that no mistake may arise, allow me to
tell you gentlemen that my friend Verstork knows nothing whatever
about the free conveyances to Banjoe Pahit, that is entirely my doing,
about which I have not consulted him. I alone am responsible for that
addition to the advertisement."

"I see," laughed one of the company, "you do not want the thing to
hang fire."

"Very likely not," said Grenits coolly.

"But," asked another, "why is Verstork to be removed, and to Atjeh,
of all places in the world?"

Grenits shrugged his shoulders but made no reply.

"Why, don't you know?" cried another, "it is all about that affair
with Lim Ho! You have heard of the story of Lim Ho and the pretty
baboe Dalima?"

"Aye--I know now--when Lim Ho so nobly resisted temptation--at least
so says our Surgeon-major."

"Yes," added another voice, "and when our friend Grenits boxed
somebody's ears."

"Ah, yes--Muizenkop did catch it--I say what has come of that
business?"

"He has brought an action against me," shortly replied Grenits.

"Has he? The brute! But how do you know that, Theodoor?"

"Why," said Grenits, "he has served me with a summons."

"Ai--! that means a few days' free lodging for you, my friend. Well,
never mind, we will come and look you up now and then--won't we,
gentlemen?"

"To be sure we will," was the general chorus.

"Time enough to think of that," said Grenits. "If I am locked up
I shall expect to see you, my friends. But just at present we have
something more serious to attend to. About that sale--I invite you
all to put in an appearance on Monday next."

