"That Grenits always has an eye to business," said one of the young
men with a laugh.

"Gentlemen," continued Theodoor most gravely, "this is no joking
matter. It concerns an innocent man who hitherto has maintained a
mother and sisters entirely dependent upon his aid--and the question
is whether he will, in the future, be able to continue to give them
that assistance?"

"Oh, is that it!" was the cry all round, "then we shall all be
there--you may depend upon us!"

"Yes, you may depend upon every one of us!"

"Thank you," said Grenits, "that's a bargain."



Yes! William Verstork was removed from Banjoe Pahit and was to
be sent to Atjeh! The detailed report which he had dispatched to
Reijnaal had been of no avail. He might perhaps have over-estimated
his friend's influence--or, perhaps, that friend did not much like
to meddle in the matter; at all events nothing came of Verstork's
appeal. The letters also which van Nerekool had written to Batavia
led to nothing. He did receive a kind of answer; but they were only
a few vague and half intelligible sentences.

What really happened in Batavia was this. On a certain Friday--the
usual day on which the Council of India meet--the assembled members
were greatly surprised at seeing the Governor General suddenly appear
in their midst, a thing which very seldom happened.

"Gentlemen," he said, after the customary ceremonial greetings had been
exchanged, "Gentlemen, a very serious complaint against a first-class
Controller has been forwarded to me by the Resident at Santjoemeh. I
have also received a document from the subordinate officer, containing
his defence to the charges made by his superior. This document directly
contradicts many of the Resident's statements, and it is for that
reason that I am desirous of having the advantage of your opinion. Now
the Resident at Santjoemeh is a most zealous and meritorious public
servant, thoroughly devoted to his country's interests; but it must
be said that in the discharge of his duties, and especially in his
conduct towards his subordinates, he is frequently too absolute and
peremptory, and allows his feelings to get the better of him. I must,
at the same time, however, confess that even thus he never loses sight
of the common-weal. Such being the case in this matter also, it would
not have been difficult for me, I think, so to settle the dispute
as to satisfy both parties without in any way interfering with the
superior officer's authority. Unfortunately, however, the question
is a more complicated one. The difference between the Resident and
his Controller is one which seems to implicate the opium-farmer at
Santjoemeh, and which threatens to bring us into conflict with him. I
think indeed I may go a step further, and that I am justified in saying
that a strict investigation, such as the controller insists upon, would
bring to light certain transactions which would compel us altogether to
exclude the present farmer Lim Yang Bing from the approaching contest
for the opium monopoly. Now, in strict justice, that exclusion would
no doubt be highly desirable; but we must not lose sight of the fact
that this Lim Yang Bing is the wealthiest Chinaman in Santjoemeh,
that he stands at the head of the most considerable company in that
district, and that he thus exercises almost absolute control over his
countrymen there. The consequence, therefore, of excluding him from
the coming opium competition, would be a very considerable fall in
the amount which, at present, it is expected to realise. And that,
in days like the present!--Yes, gentlemen, I repeat it, at a time
like the present!--Just now I received a telegram in cypher from the
Hague, which tells me that the estimate of the Colonial Secretary
has found no favour in our house of Representatives; because it is
thought that his estimate is much too low, and that expenses have
not been sufficiently kept down. That telegram further states that
one of you gentlemen will most probably soon be invited to take the
place of our present Colonial Secretary. Well--whoever he may be,
I cannot say that I envy him the distinction. It is quite certain,
however, that the first thing he will be expected to do, is to drive
up the revenue to as high a figure as possible, and, for that purpose,
the opium monopoly, in spite of what men may think or say about it,
seems to me to be the only available means. In order, therefore, not
to make the task of the future minister more difficult than it must
of necessity be, it is my opinion that it would be good policy just
at present to protect the opium farmer. The Resident of Santjoemeh
tells me that the withdrawal of Lim Yang Bing from the competition
will make a difference in the revenue of at least six or seven hundred
thousand guilders."

