At the mention of these figures, the eyes of the youngest member of
the Council sparkled with unwonted fire, and, in his zeal for the
public exchequer, forgetting the usual etiquette, he interrupted the
Governor General before the latter had quite finished his speech.

"With your Excellency's leave," said he, jumping up from his seat with
much animation, "I would remark, and I feel confident that, in what I
am about to say, I shall but utter the sentiments of all my colleagues,
that under circumstances like the present, we ought not to hesitate
to adopt any measures which may serve to make the finances of the
country correspond to the demands of the times. Any proposal which
may promote such equilibrium cannot fail of ready acceptance from a
board such as ours, which, inspired by the highest patriotic feelings,
is ever prepared to make any sacrifices for the welfare of Holland."

The appeal was so shameless that its very grossness insured its
success. The members of the Council bowed their heads in acquiescence,
and the lips, which could have uttered such terrible truths, under the
influence, doubtless, of the enervating effect of the tropical sun,
now merely opened sleepily to utter an obsequious:

"Yes, your Excellency!"

The Governor General, who at once perceived that he had gained his
point, then said with a sigh:

"In that case my course with the Controller is clear. I am much
obliged to you, gentlemen, for your counsel."

The next moment the drum was rolling at the main guard, and the men
turned out to present arms to the king's representative as he drove
away to his palace on the Koningsplein, well satisfied, no doubt,
that he had performed a signal service to his country, if not to
humanity at large.

In four days' time William Verstork received the order of his removal
to Atjeh, and, what was perhaps more galling still, along with it a
letter from the Director of the Home Department, in which that official
expressed the hope that, in his capacity of Controller, he would make
the best use of his undoubted abilities and of his great knowledge
of the native character to aid and assist the military authorities
in their arduous task of pacifying the population. And, the director
went on to say: "Allow me also to cherish the expectation that, in
the future, you will exhibit a greater amount of tact; and to suggest
that you should show more deference and respect to your superiors;
for, after this plain warning, you can expect no further indulgence."

