"Well, Charles," cried Verstork, as he flung the letter upon the table,
"what do you think of that?"

"I think it is a burning shame!" replied van Nerekool, his voice
trembling with indignation.

"You see, my dear fellow," continued Verstork, "this is the most
favourable result we could anticipate. Removed to Atjeh! that is to say
struck off from the list of the Home Department of Java and Madura. It
is simply a degradation. Are these the principles which animate our
rulers? The state of society out here is rotten--rotten to the core!"

"No, no!" cried van Nerekool, with animation, "don't say that--there is
one part of that society which is sound and undefiled, and which stands
high above the tricks and paltry intrigues of the ruling powers--and
that is the judicature. The power of the law will succeed in bridling
and subduing the monster of injustice and tyranny."

Charles van Nerekool spoke these words with all the enthusiasm of
truth--he was fully persuaded of the truth of his assertion. Verstork
looked at his friend and a bitter smile came over his troubled
countenance. He did not, however, say a single word, he would not
disturb the day-dream of his friend--the future, he knew, would soon
enough dissipate his fond illusions.



Banjoe Pahit, that quiet and secluded dessa, was, on Monday morning,
the scene of the greatest excitement.

At the gate of the Controller's house a Javanese stood striking
measured blows on the gong, and that unwonted noise brought the
entire population around him. Within the house, Grenits, Grashuis,
and van Nerekool were busily employed helping Verstork to set out
the furniture, which, presently, was to be offered for sale, to the
best advantage. In one place a writing-desk had to be placed in a
more prominent position--in another a cupboard or table had to be
re-arranged. Pictures also and statuettes had to be placed in the most
favourable light; for Grenits, with the true eye of a commercial man,
knew that, next to advertising, a tasteful exhibition of the articles
would attract the attention of the buyers.

