At length all was considered in readiness, and it was with a kind of
mournful satisfaction that the friends walked through the apartments,
surveying and admiring the arrangement in which they had borne a
principal share. In the back galleries especially, where the glass,
the crystal and the dinner-services were displayed, their finishing
touches had been remarkably successful.

Everything looked so neat, and in such perfect order, that Grenits
could not help exclaiming:

"No one would think that these are bachelor's quarters! William,
I can promise you an excellent sale."

Meanwhile the gong kept on clanging incessantly.

Just then a couple of carriages came rolling up to the Controller's
house. Out of one of these stepped the Regent of Santjoemeh, and
he at once walked up to the European gentlemen. After the customary
salutations:

"Well, Radhen Mas Toemenggoeng," said Grashuis hugely pleased at
seeing the Javanese chief arriving thus early, "you are coming,
I hope, to buy a good lot!"

"Perhaps, sir, but money is scarce," replied the Regent with a smile.

"Never mind that, Radhen Mas," laughed Grenits, "you can buy on tick."

The cautious old chief smiled and shook his head, but had no time
to reply; for by this time the second conveyance, a capacious drag,
had discharged its load which consisted of a member of the firm of
Gladbach and Co. and the whole of his staff of clerks, &c.

The agent walked up to Verstork, shook hands with him and whispered:

"Very bad news, Controller!"

"What is the matter?" asked Verstork.

"The Chinamen at Santjoemeh have been ordered not to come to your
sale."

"Who gave that order?"

"I don't know," replied the agent shrugging his shoulders. This was
bad news indeed; for the Chinamen, if they happen to be well disposed
towards the owner, are generally very brisk bidders. Their abstention
indeed threatened to be very disastrous.

Verstork heaved a deep sigh as he ran his eye over his possessions
which now bid fair to go for an old song. He sighed, not because he
particularly regretted the probable loss; but at the thought of his
dear ones yonder who--

