But fortunately he had no time for indulging in melancholy
forebodings, for the carriages now succeeded one another with amazing
rapidity. Drags, landaus, waggonettes, dog-carts, and spring-carts,
came flying up the drive and began setting down their loads at the
entrance of the Controller's house. A great number of horsemen too
and pedestrians from the estates round about, began to flock in;
and the oppassers on duty found it as much as they could do to keep
the carriages in line, to put up the saddle-horses and to usher the
gentlemen into the house.

All ranks of European society in Java were there represented;
landowners, tenants, coffee planters, rice-planters, sugar and
indigo manufacturers, merchants, insurance agents, shipping agents,
solicitors, notaries, barristers, judges, officers of the Army
and Navy, in fact it seemed as if the whole of Santjoemeh had
migrated bodily to Banjoe Pahit. In the capital all business was
at a standstill; there was not a single conveyance, not a single
spring-cart or carriage to be got there. The Resident van Gulpendam
noticed that these vehicles did not occupy their usual stands, and
was told that they were all off to Banjoe Pahit.

He smiled at the information; but it was on the wrong side of his
mouth.

Still the gong went on giving forth its harsh discordant sounds.

The employés of the Home office and its clerks and writers, who
were employed in the Residential office, were conspicuous by their
absence. Not one of them had been able to get leave for an excursion
to Banjoe Pahit.

The Javanese population, in their usual retiring way, timidly crowded
round the animated scene. These poor people most assuredly did not
come to buy, they were impelled by curiosity just to get a peep at
the interior of a European's dwelling house.

Treêng, treêng went the gong incessantly. When the company had
pretty well assembled, and compliments had been duly exchanged,
Verstork left the place. He could not bear to be present and see
his household gods dispersed. So he went to the Mohammedan priest,
with whom he had some matters to settle before he left the dessa,
and after the sale was over he purposed to return to Santjoemeh with
van Nerekool, Grashuis and Grenits.--

