"I say, Kees, you must be made interpreter--sworn interpreter!" shouted
one of the bystanders.

"Here's to you; I drink your health in pahit prawan!"

"One rixdollar!" cried Grenits.

"Three! Four! Five! Six! came the bids, in rapid succession. The
auctioneer could not turn his head fast enough to catch the eye of
the bidders.

"Six!" at length he managed to exclaim.

"Seven! Eight!--"

"Ten!" cried Grenits.

"Ten offered," droned the auctioneer with the utmost indifference. This
was not the first strange scene he had witnessed in his profession.

"Ten!" cried he, "won't any gentleman go higher than ten."

"Come, come, that is pretty fair," said a voice.

"Ten once, ten twice, ten for the third and last time!"

Bang! down came the hammer.

"An expensive set," grumbled some one in the crowd, "a hundred and
twenty guilders--the bitters must be good at that price."

"Especially pahit prawan!"

"Well, give us another glass."

The last lot put up for sale--a gajoeng, that is a simple cocoa-nut
vessel with a handle used for throwing water over the body in the bath,
fetched five and twenty guilders.

The friends of Verstork might well congratulate each other. They had
worked to some purpose. When half an hour later the clerk posted
up the total receipts, the house very nearly came down with the
deafening cheers.

"Nine thousand seven hundred and forty guilders!" exclaimed Verstork,
when he heard the result of the sale; "why, the whole kit was not
worth three thousand. Thanks, many thanks, my friends."

He shook hands warmly with van Nerekool, with Grashuis, with van
Beneden and with Grenits. "You have saved me many an hour of dreadful
anxiety," he whispered to them.

Eight days after, the Controller was standing, in excellent spirits, on
the deck of the Tamborah which was to convey him to his new abode. Full
of courage and full of hope, he took leave of the trusty friends who
accompanied him to the steamer.

"Once again," he cried to them from the deck, "thanks, a thousand
thanks!"

