"What is the meaning of this concourse, Mr. Thomasz?" asked
Mr. Zuidhoorn of the deputy-recorder, whom he met as he entered
the pandoppo.

The latter, who was a half-caste, looked up at his chief with a
puzzled expression of countenance.

"You stare at me very strangely," continued Mr. Zuidhoorn. "What can
have brought all this crowd of people together?"

"They are curious, I suppose, to know," replied the recorder, not
without hesitation, "how it will end."

"How will what end?"

"Well, sir, what will be the result of the session."

"The session?" repeated Mr. Zuidhoorn, surprised in his turn,
"is there anything very remarkable about it?"

The recorder evidently felt very ill at ease.

"Sir," he stammered, "you seem not to know what has taken place."

"No, I don't," replied Mr. Zuidhoorn, "what is the matter?"

Mr. Thomasz was getting more and more nervous. His face, which was very
sallow, began to assume a greenish yellow complexion. Mr. Zuidhoorn
seeing the man's confusion cried out:

"Speak up for goodness sake, man, speak up!"

"The native members--of the council, sir--have received a letter from
the Resident--" he managed to stammer.

"A letter--!" exclaimed Mr. Zuidhoorn--"from the Resident! What in
the world about?"

"It was a letter, sir, forbidding them to attend this session."

"Forbidding them to attend!" exclaimed Mr. Zuidhoorn, now fairly
astonished. "Why, Mr. Thomasz, have you taken leave of your senses?"

"No, sir, indeed I have not," replied the recorder with a painful
smile. "You question me and I am obliged to answer--and further--"

"Well, what else? Out with it!"

"The Chinese assessors and the head-djaksa have received similar
communications--so that--"

"So that what?" cried the president impatiently.

"So that there will be no court held to-day since you will be the
only member present."

"Is it possible?" exclaimed the president. "I tell you what,
Mr. Thomasz, my carriage is still at the door, you jump into it and
drive off at once to all the native members, and also to the Chinese
assessors, and to the djaksa, and tell them that I order them to come
here without delay. To-day is the assize-day, and I am determined
that the cases shall be heard."

