"Bariedin: charged with wearing in public a civilian's
cap--Ridiculous! Those fellows in the Home Department do make fools
of themselves--such a trifle is high treason in their eyes.

"Sarina: charged with deserting her infant child--that's bad--not so
bad however as flinging the poor little thing into the river or the
canal as they generally do at home in such cases.

"Pak Ardjan: accused--of--opium--smuggling--and wounding--a
policeman! Now I think I am coming to it--now a light dawns in upon
me; and the next case?

"Ardjan: accused--of--opium--smuggling! Ardjan, the future husband
of the baboe Dalima!"

These two last cases Mr. Zuidhoorn had read so slowly and so
deliberately that he seemed almost to spell every syllable; then,
for a while, he stood lost in thought, while he put his finger to
his forehead.

"How could I have forgotten that? And van Nerekool, who so recently
talked the whole of this business over with me!--And--the day after
to-morrow I must be off to Holland!

"Well, no matter, those cases must be disposed of to-day, and they
shall be disposed of at any price! I shall see about that!"

Yes, the judge would see; but not in the sense in which he meant it;
he would see that the court was not to sit at all that day.

When he had got thus far in his soliloquy, the door opened, and the
Regent of Santjoemeh appeared, and with him came one of the most
considerable of the native chiefs of the Residence, Radhen Ngahebi
Wirio Kesoemo. They were both members of the court, and it was their
turn to be in attendance. They were accompanied by the panghoeloe or
priest, carrying the inevitable Koran in his hand. Both the former
dignitaries confirmed the statement of the deputy-recorder, and told
Mr. Zuidhoorn that the Resident had expressly forbidden them to attend
the court on that day. "But," they continued, "since the Kandjeng
toean judge has summoned us, we feel it our duty to obey his commands."

"But," asked the president, "what reason does the Resident give for
this prohibition?"

