The Regent merely shrugged his shoulders and, very prudently, made
no reply. Radhen Ngahebi however said:

"Yesterday I called upon the Resident, and then the Kandjeng toean
informed me that, after having got leave of absence, you were no
longer qualified to take the chair at the sessions; and that it was
for that reason he had sent the letter."

Mr. Zuidhoorn smiled contemptuously; but, in the presence of natives,
he refrained from uttering a single word which might have even a
semblance of questioning the authority of the highest official who
was the representative of the Dutch power in Santjoemeh. Indeed
he scarcely had time to speak, for very soon after the Javanese
chiefs and the Chinese assessors also entered the pandoppo. They
very cautiously and with infinite circumlocution informed the toean
lakkel, thus they pronounced the word "rakker" which signifies judge,
that they were not to blame for arriving so late.

At length the chief djaksa appeared. He made a ceremonious bow to the
chairman and to the other members of the court and said, that he had
that very morning been summoned into the presence of the Resident,
and that he had, from his lips, received a peremptory order not to
attend the court.

"However," he continued, "in my capacity of native judge I am under
your immediate authority, and I have come to inquire how you wish me
to act in this matter."

As he spoke he made another deep bow to his superior officer.

"Djaksa," replied Mr. Zuidhoorn, "I have no commands whatever to give
you. You occupy so high a position that I must leave you to judge for
yourself what course you had better pursue. As far as I am concerned,
I have most positively made up my mind to carry on the business of the
court to-day; and, seeing that our number is now complete, I intend
to open the proceedings at once. Gentlemen, please to take your seats."

Scarcely, however, had they done so, and just as Mr. Zuidhoorn was
in the act of bringing down his presidential hammer and declaring the
sessions opened, the back door of the pandoppo was thrown open and the
private secretary of the Resident appeared on the threshold. He was
in official costume and accompanied by a posse of policemen, one of
whom held aloft behind him the Resident's unopened umbrella, in token
that the secretary appeared as representative of his chief. Without
deigning to offer any greeting, the secretary began:

