"You, Radhen Mas Toemenggoeng Pringgoe Kesoemo, and you, Radhen
Ngahebi Wirio Kesoemo, and you, Panghoeloe Mas Ali Ibrahim, and you,
Ong Ang Thay, and Kwee Lie Liang--you have, as members, as priest,
and as assessors of this court of justice, received a written order
from the Kandjeng toean Resident distinctly forbidding you to attend
here on this day. The Kandjeng toean Resident now sends me to inquire
what can have induced you to commit so grave an offence as knowingly
and deliberately to disobey the command of him who is the direct
representative of the Kandjeng toean Governor General, who again in
Batavia stands in the place of the Kandjeng toean Radja dari Tana
Nederland dan Hindia? Speak, I am prepared to hear what explanation
you have to offer for conduct so insubordinate? Be well assured that
whatever may be your excuse, the Kandjeng toean Resident will give
it his calm and impartial consideration."

The deepest silence succeeded this startling address. With the
exception of the chairman, the men assembled there seemed annihilated
by the secretary's words, they hardly dared to draw a breath, they
scarcely ventured to look at one another. They wished the ground
would open and swallow them up. How could they have had the audacity
of daring to disregard the express command of the Mighty Lord? Their
disobedience was indeed flagrant! Would the Kandjeng toean ever forgive
them for it? Such were the thoughts which passed through the brains
of the fearless and independent judges who were considered fit and
proper persons impartially to administer justice to their countrymen.

Mr. Zuidhoorn--who thoroughly knew the Javanese character and who
had learned to fathom the abject and cringing servility of the native
chiefs towards their Dutch masters--Mr. Zuidhoorn, who so often had
compared them with the dog that licks the hand of the man that strikes
him--looked with compassion on the poor creatures that showed such
abject cowardice even when sitting in the very court to which they
had been summoned to discharge duties, which, above all other duties,
demand perfect fearlessness and independence. This servility, indeed,
could hardly be laid to their charge; it was the natural result of
the long system of extortion and bullying to which their race had
been subjected.

