"Not? well give way--full speed ahead!"

"No, Resident, the funniest part of the whole business was
Mr. Zuidhoorn's face. That's what you ought to have seen. He sat there,
with his mouth wide open, scowling over his spectacles which hung down
low on his nose, after the retreating figure of the colic-stricken
djaksa; and, in his loose gown, he looked for all the world like an
old gingham umbrella in a cover much too big for it."

"That will do! that will do! Mr. Thomasz," grinned van Gulpendam,
"you have told your story splendidly!"

The deputy-recorder made a low bow in acknowledgment of the compliment.

"And what happened next?"

"Why then, Resident, nothing could happen--there was no djaksa,
no usher of the court--so the session could not go on. The members
present were smiling and were beginning to look at their watches;
evidently they had had quite enough of sitting there to no purpose. So
Mr. Zuidhoorn had no option--he brought down his hammer and adjourned
the court for a week. Thereupon I hurried off at once to bring you
the news."

"And capitally you have done it, Mr. Thomasz! I am much obliged to
you--at the proper time I will repay your zeal."

As soon as the deputy-recorder had left, van Gulpendam turned to
his secretary who, with folded arms, had stood listening to the
conversation.

"Our object, you see, has been attained--now to take advantage of the
fair tide. You must take care that all the documents are ready in good
time--next week I purpose to take the chair myself at the assizes."

"Everything shall be in readiness, sir," replied the secretary;
"but will you allow me to make one remark?"

"By all means, secretary--fire away!"

"The whole of this business seems to me to be a very serious game."

"How so?" exclaimed van Gulpendam, "do you think I am afraid of
burning my hands in cold water?"

"What I mean, Resident, is this. It is a very lucky chance indeed
that Mr. Zuidhoorn happened to disregard your injunction and that he
was thus compelled to adjourn the court for another week."

