"Well!" cried van Gulpendam impatiently, "cut it short."

"If he had not done so," continued the secretary, "you would this
day have presided--would you not?"

"Certainly, and then we should have settled matters by this time."

The secretary scratched his ear.

"Resident," said he thoughtfully, "are you sure of Mr. Meidema?"

"Sure of Meidema? what has he to do with it?"

"The opium-haul they made at Moeara Tjatjing," continued the secretary,
"is a pretty valuable one. I fancy that Meidema is rather looking
forward to reaping some benefit from the confiscation which must
follow the sentence of the court."

"Has he told you so? Has he given you any hint to that effect?"

"Not exactly, Resident. But you must remember Mr. Meidema has a large
family to provide for; and it is whispered in Santjoemeh that he finds
some difficulty in making both ends meet. Indeed it would not surprise
me to hear that he is in debt. So, you see, a little windfall of that
kind would come in very handy."

"But," said van Gulpendam "he has no right to any such thing--the
law forbids it."

"You are quite right, Resident, nothing ever escapes your eagle eye;
but yet--'il y a des accommodements avec le ciel,' and therefore--"

"But how?" asked van Gulpendam testily.

"Look you, Resident, that I can't tell you--I don't know; but I fancy
some loophole could be found. In this particular case, for instance,
baboe Dalima is the real discoverer. Now supposing she, in order to
save her Ardjan, should hand over her share or part of it--and remember
she can have not the slightest idea of its value--to a third party?"

For a moment or two the Resident reflected, then with a smile he
turned to his secretary and said:

"Well--even if that were so--that does not explain to me why I should
distrust Mr. Meidema. As far as I can see, any hope of sharing in
the profits of the confiscated tjandoe would make him as pliable as
spun yarn."

"It is very possible, Resident, your judgment is seldom at fault;
but you must not lose sight of the 23rd clause of the opium-law. For
myself, I would not mind swearing that Mr. Meidema is shaping his
course with his eye on that particular clause. In the case which he,
as head of the local police, has drawn up, you will notice that though
he states the opium to have been found not far from the prisoner
Ardjan, yet he takes care to add that the Javanese came ashore in
a small surf-boat which could not possibly have conveyed so large
a quantity, and which, moreover, was dashed to pieces by the waves;
whereas the packages discovered show no trace whatever of having been
in contact with water."

