"Is that mentioned in his report?"

"Yes, Resident, it is, and there is something else. He draws attention
to the fact that the schooner brig Kiem Pin Hin was seen cruising
about off the coast on the night in question, and that the cutter of
the Matamata gave chase to a boat of the smuggling vessel."

"Did you read that report?" asked van Gulpendam who now began to be
really alarmed. "Very possibly you are on the right tack," the Resident
muttered rather than said. "Now, Mr. Secretary, be kind enough to
hand me Mr. Meidema's report as soon as ever it reaches our office,
and further send an oppasser to request that gentleman, in my name,
to step over here at once."

This, of course, was a dismissal in optimâ formâ.

When van Gulpendam found himself alone he looked up the act of 1874
and said:

"The secretary mentioned clause 23 I think. Let us see. Oho! a fine
of one thousand to ten thousand guilders! And, when I come to consider
how, on the evening of the occurrence, Mr. Meidema laid stress upon the
exact value of the capture of tjandoe--Yes, then I am driven to confess
that our secretary may perhaps be in the right channel after all."

He sprang up from his seat, and with rapid steps began to walk up
and down the gallery.

"Oh!" cried he gnashing his teeth with vexation--"all this bother
brought on by that wretched fellow van Nerekool! Oh--if Anna would
but consent!"








CHAPTER XXIV.

PARENTS v. DAUGHTER; DUTY v. AUTHORITY.


Yes, if Anna would but consent! But, that was the very thing she
would not do.

After both her parents, who were so strangely unlike their high-minded
child, had employed every means in their power to induce Anna to join
their conspiracy by using the influence she had over van Nerekool, the
girl had replied: "No, never!" just as firmly and just as resolutely as
Charles himself had uttered those words in reply to Mrs. van Gulpendam
in the garden of the Residence.

"No, never, never!" said the true-hearted girl as emphatically as it
was possible to pronounce the words.

