"But remember," cried Laurentia, "his whole career depends upon the
attitude you choose to assume in this matter!"

"Charles shall never condescend to seek promotion by stooping to a
mean, dishonourable action," was the girl's reply.

"Anna!" shouted the Resident, in a furious rage, "take care what you
say! I advise you to keep some check upon your tongue!"

"For goodness sake, Gulpie," interposed Laurentia soothingly, "now do
be quiet--anger will not mend matters." And then turning again to her
daughter, she continued: "And Anna, I wish you not to lose sight of
the fact that the possibility of your union with van Nerekool depends
wholly on your present line of conduct."

"My union!" sadly exclaimed the poor girl.

"A woman who is really in love," continued her mother, "has a very
considerable amount of power to influence the man upon whom she has
set her affections."

"But, mother, do you then really wish me to try and persuade Charles
to lend himself to an infamous breach of duty?"

"Anna, don't go too far!" roared van Gulpendam, beside himself
with anger.

"Would you," continued Anna, "would you have me deliberately widen
the gap which is already growing between us? No, no, I shall not do
that. All joy has been swept out of my life for ever; and I have now
but one wish left, and that is that my image, pure and unsullied,
may continue to live in his memory. I can never become his wife,
that I know well; but my name at least shall remain with him as fair
and as spotless as the remembrance of a blissful dream!"

"But, Anna," persisted her mother, speaking in her most honeyed and
winning tones, "but, Anna, my dear girl, why should you talk thus? Why
should there be no joy for you in this life? Surely that is tormenting
yourself quite needlessly."

"Oh, mother!" cried the poor girl, "do spare me the pain and the
sorrow of having to utter words which will be most distressing to
you and most painful to my father to hear. No, no! Of happiness for
me there can be no further question--of a union with van Nerekool,
I must never again allow myself to think!"

