"Better that," was her reply, "much better, than that I should rob
him of his honour."

"It makes your marriage with him impossible."

"I know it but too well," sighed Anna, "but I cannot help that--the
fault of that lies with my parents."

"How can you make that out?" exclaimed Laurentia.

"He cannot, and he never shall, marry the daughter of parents who
could venture to make him such infamous proposals!"

"Anna!" roared her father, "you are utterly forgetting yourself--it is
time we should have no more of this. A girl who dares to make use of
such language to her parents shows herself unworthy of them. I fully
intended to put an end to this nonsensical love-story altogether. It
has, indeed, already compromised you. I intended to send you away,
for a while, on a visit to Karang Anjer; and I meant you to start on
your journey next week. Now, however, I change my mind; and you must
be off at once--to-morrow morning."

"To-morrow morning!" exclaimed Laurentia. "What will the Steenvlaks
say to this sudden change of plan?"

"Assistant Resident Steenvlak," replied her husband, "has been suddenly
called away to Batavia. He has been obliged to leave Mrs. Steenvlak
and her daughters at Karang Anjer, and, as he may be away from home
for a considerable time, the family will no doubt be glad enough to
have someone to stay with them during his absence. However that may
be, Anna will, I am sure, be welcome. I am going to my office this
moment and will at once send off a telegram to Karang Anjer. To-morrow
morning Anna will start for Poerworedjo, a friend of mine will be
there to meet her, and he will take her on in his carriage to the
Steenvlaks. She will travel by way of Koetoe Ardjo and Keboemen."

Laurentia heaved a deep sigh. "We shall have but very little time to
get her things ready," said she. The remark itself and still more
the way she made it, showed plainly enough that the bother of this
sudden departure touched her much more nearly than the separation
from her child.

