"Oh! mother," said Anna as quietly as possible, "pray leave all that
entirely to me. I shall be quite ready to start to-morrow, as early
as ever you please."

"Do you intend her to stay long with the Steenvlaks?" asked Laurentia.

"That will very much depend upon herself," was van Gulpendam's
reply. "I don't want to see her face again, unless she consents to
return in a much more submissive mood, and is prepared to behave in
a dutiful and becoming manner to her parents."

As he uttered these words, van Gulpendam glanced at his daughter
hoping--perhaps expecting--that he might detect in her some signs
of relenting. But, though she was deadly pale, Anna did not betray
the feelings which were stirring within her. On her placid features
there was no trace either of irresolution or of defiance; there was
nothing but quiet determination and settled purpose.

"You have, I presume," continued the Resident, "well weighed and
thoroughly understood what I said?" He rose and prepared to go to
his office.

"Certainly, father, I have understood you perfectly. To-morrow morning
I leave this house never to set foot in it again. Even if you had not
so decided, I myself would have insisted upon an immediate separation."

"Oh, ho! Does the wind sit in that quarter? And pray, may I be
allowed to ask my proud and independent daughter what plans she may
have formed for the future? She surely must be aware that she cannot
quarter herself for an indefinite period of time upon the Steenvlaks?"

Van Gulpendam, as he put the question, assumed a tone and manner in
the highest degree offensive and taunting.

But Anna would not allow herself to be ruffled and, in the calmest
possible way she replied:

"You ask me, father, what are my plans for the future, and I must
beg you to allow me to keep my intentions to myself. For the present
moment I gladly accept the hospitality of the Steenvlaks. You know
how fond I am of the two girls and how much I respect and admire
their mother. But, as to the future, my plans are, at present, I
must confess, very vague. I do not very well know what to say about
them; and, even if I were ever so anxious to give you my confidence,
I could hardly tell you what I intend to do. Of one thing, however,
you may rest assured--whatever may happen, I shall never again be a
source of trouble or expense to you."

