"Indeed!" replied van Gulpendam, still in his sneering
tone. "Indeed! And so my daughter seems to fancy that she can step
out into the wide world without a penny in her pocket! I am very
curious to learn what impressions she may have formed of that world."

"You must pardon me, father," replied the young girl still very
quietly; "but now you compel me to touch upon a subject which I feel
is a very delicate one. You have given me an education which has but
very poorly fitted me to provide for my own maintenance. Yes--I might,
perhaps, earn something by giving music lessons; but here in Java I
could not well do so without casting a reflection upon your name. To
go to Holland and there have to roam about the streets in search of
employment--the very thought is repugnant to my feelings. But all
these are matters for future consideration."

"Oh, you think so?" sneered van Gulpendam, "for future
consideration! Now, it appears to me, that in such schemes, the earning
of money ought to be the first and most important consideration."

"Such being your opinion," replied Anna with a sigh, but no less
resolutely and calmly than before, "I must now come to business. I
did not think I should ever have had to speak to you on this
subject at all--indeed the matter would never have crossed my lips,
had not necessity compelled me to speak out freely. Two years ago,
you remember, we received the news that Grandmamma van Gulpendam had
died at Gouda. The same mail which brought us the sad tidings of her
death, brought me a letter forwarded by her lawyer. In that letter the
dear old lady took a most affectionate leave of me and told me how
much she regretted that she had never had the opportunity of seeing
me or becoming acquainted with me. She informed me further that,
in her will, she had left me the sum of 30,000 guilders, and that,
as soon as I was nineteen, the money would be at my disposal. She
begged me, however, not to mention the matter to you as she did not
wish to deprive you of the pleasure of giving me that surprise on my
nineteenth birthday. Her lawyer merely added a few words confirming
my grandmother's communication; and he went on to tell me that he had
invested the capital in the 4 1/2 per cents, and that, by the express
desire of the deceased, the money was not to be realised. Well,
the interest of this sum, which is mine and which you will hardly
refuse to give me, is amply sufficient for my present wants. Next
year I shall be nineteen and I shall then have the power to dispose
of the capital. By that time I shall have made up my mind as to the
manner in which I can most usefully employ it."

