All this, the young girl spoke so naturally and so quietly that
both her parents, who latterly had gained some insight into the
character of their daughter, understood perfectly well that they
had to deal with a resolution which nothing could shake. They were,
indeed, greatly surprised to find that Anna was so well informed as
to the dispositions which her grandmother had made in her favour;
but they felt that denial or resistance to her claim were alike
impossible. Indeed her better nature began to prevail over the mother,
and tears stood in her eyes as she said:

"Anna! poor child! what a terrible future you are laying up for
yourself!"

"Mother," was the girl's reply, "a future more terrible than that
which must await me here, I cannot possibly conceive. What worse
misfortunes can overtake me? I defy Fortune to be more cruel to me
in the time to come than she has already shown herself in the past."

At these words van Gulpendam rose from the seat he had resumed. He
put his hand to his throat as if to clear away something which was
rising there and threatened to choke him. But, his was a tyrannical
nature, and he at once repressed the natural emotion which, he feared,
might overcome him. The very consciousness, indeed, of the fact that
his child was so much purer, so much better and stronger than he was
himself, was unbearable to him.

"Yes! yes!" he exclaimed, "that is all mighty fine--very fine and very
romantic! Unfortunately it lacks common sense. We have now said all
we have to say to each other and the upshot of it is that I stick
to my resolution; and that to-morrow morning early, you leave for
Karang Anjer."

"I am not aware, father," said the girl with much dignity, "I am not
aware that I have made any attempt to alter your decision."

"Very good, that settles the matter!" cried van Gulpendam, and then,
with concentrated fury in his voice, he continued: "We shall find
some way of breaking that little temper."

These were his parting words as he turned to go.

