

On the morrow of this most painful interview, just as day was about
to dawn, a carriage stood waiting at the steps of the residential
mansion. It was one of those light conveyances drawn by four horses
which Europeans often use in the interior of Java where railways are
unknown, and which are well suited to traverse long distances along
broken roads and steep mountain paths. Under the back seat of this
vehicle was strapped a small travelling bag, only just big enough
to contain a few necessary articles of clothing. Anna had made up
her mind that she would not take away with her out of her father's
house any single thing but what was strictly necessary. Even that she
would have left behind, but for the consideration that the interest
of the money left her by her aunt which, for the last two years,
had not been paid to her, amply sufficed to cover the value of the
few things she packed up. Not a single jewel, not one silk dress,
not the least bit of lace, did that little bag contain. She carefully
left all those superfluities behind her, and would carry away nothing
but a little underclothing and a couple of plain muslin dresses.

The small travelling trunk had scarcely been strapped into its place
before Anna herself appeared in the front gallery. She was clad with
the utmost simplicity in a black dress, and dark-coloured bonnet. There
was on her person nothing whatever to catch the eye but the plain
linen collar and the cuffs round her wrists, and these narrow strips
of white seemed only to increase the demureness and earnestness of
her appearance. As she thus prepared to leave her parents' home,
she was alone, not a soul was by to comfort her. The rosy dawn was
casting its friendly light over the garden, upon the shrubs, the
flowers, the leaves, and even over the furniture of the verandah;
and the young girl cast a yearning, sorrowful glance upon all these
familiar objects which awakened so many memories in her breast. For an
instant it seemed as if she hesitated; but it was only for an instant,
for hastily brushing away the tears which were silently stealing down
her cheeks, she sprang upon a splendid Devoniensis which was growing
against the balustrade, and hastily plucked one just opening bud which
she put into her bosom as she muttered with a sob: "My darling flower,
you shall go with me into exile!" and the next moment she had jumped
into the carriage which immediately started.

