Not another sigh, not another look. The final separation was thus
accomplished. The vehicle rumbled heavily through the massive
and highly ornamented gates, and then with all speed made for the
hill-country of the interior of Java. Anna meanwhile throwing herself
back in the carriage gave way to sad reflections.

But all the while, hidden by the Venetian blinds, Anna's mother had
been standing and watching her daughter with feverish anxiety. She
had caught the desolate expression in Anna's eyes as she glanced
around upon all those familiar objects which from childhood had been
so dear to her; she had seen the girl plucking that rosebud, and her
eyes had eagerly followed her as she sprang into the carriage. Then a
hoarse cry escaped from her lips, "My God, my God," she sobbed, "has
it come to this? Where there was everything to ensure happiness! How
will all this end?"

Aye indeed; how was it all to end? That was a question to which the
future was to give a terrible answer.

Late on that afternoon, Anna arrived at a small dessa in the interior,
and left her carriage while a change of horses was being made. She
asked the postmaster if he would allow her to sit down and rest awhile
in his bamboo verandah, and he very readily granted her request. Then
she drew forth her writing materials and was soon wholly absorbed in
the work of writing a letter. For a few moments she sat irresolute,
her pale and careworn face plainly enough showing that she had a most
difficult and serious task before her. First she heaved a deep sigh;
then two big, burning tears slowly trickled down and fell heavily on
the paper before her. But at length, by degrees she appeared to be
carried away by her subject, and she wrote on in feverish haste. Yes,
the subject of that letter was indeed to the young girl a serious and
difficult one; for she was composing her last letter to her lover van
Nerekool. In the condition of utter loneliness in which she then was,
she laid bare her whole soul to him, and, although words thus written
were intended to meet the eye only of him to whom they were addressed;
yet the novelist is guilty of no indiscretion if he should glance
over the young girl's shoulder to gain an insight into her feelings
and thus give the motive for her actions. The letter was not a very
long one; yet it cost poor Anna a great deal of anxious thought.

