"Mr. van Nerekool," she wrote, "from the evening when we met on the
occasion of the ball at the Residence, I have, in spite of all your
endeavours to obtain another interview, purposely avoided seeing
you again. On that occasion you asked me to become your wife, and
I allowed you to speak to my parents on the subject. Under those
circumstances you were no doubt perfectly justified in seeking for
further intercourse with me, and it is for this reason that I now
address these last words to you. After I left you in the garden, you
had a long interview with my mother, and it was not until the following
morning that I learned what had been the subject of conversation
between you. Pardon me, Mr. van Nerekool, for I know that a child
ought not to criticise the actions of her parents; but it is that
conversation and the fact that my father endorses everything my mother
then said, that makes my union with you impossible. Yours is an upright
and loyal nature, and you cannot and must not think of making me your
wife after the infamous proposals which have been made to you. You will
say perhaps that a child is not guilty of the actions of her parents
and cannot be held responsible for them. In that you are perfectly
right, and I must tell you that my conscience is as clear, and that,
if in my present forlorn condition I may be allowed so to speak, I, at
this present moment, hold up my head as high as before I knew anything
of my mother's designs. But to be always face to face with the man to
whom the odious propositions were made; to be ever conscious, even in
our tenderest moments, of the fact that I was flung to the man I love
as the price of dishonour, that is a prospect which to me is utterly
unendurable. You are a gentleman, and, as such, you would, no doubt,
always have treated my parents with deference and with the proper show
of respect; but to know that all this must be a mere empty show put
on in deference to a daughter's natural affections, O Charles!--allow
me for the last time to call you by that dear name--O Charles! that
would have made life an intolerable burden to me, and must inevitably,
in the end, have destroyed your happiness also.

