"I am writing these words to you from Sapoeran where I am resting for
a few minutes while we are changing horses. You have, no doubt, heard
that I am going on to Karang Anjer to stay with the Steenvlaks. My
father, I know, has proclaimed that fact loudly enough and it must
have come to your ears. Yes! I am now on my way to that lonely
retreat; but that is only the first stage on the long and difficult
road which lies before me. Do you ask what I intend to do? Well,
my dear friend, I myself do not yet know what my future course will
be. It is most probable that I shall try and get away to Europe,
or perhaps to Australia. This much, however, is quite certain;
that after my visit to the Steenvlaks I shall disappear altogether;
for the very name of van Gulpendam has become hateful to me. But,
Charles, when I shall have vanished, when even my very name shall no
longer be mentioned, and I shall be as one over whom the grave has
closed; then, I know, you will be generous enough to give a thought
now and then to the poor girl who, innocent of even a thought of evil,
would have esteemed herself only too happy to have been able to call
herself yours; but for whom such happiness was not reserved. One
request I have to make. Do not lose sight of Dalima. I know her sad
condition. I know all about it. I know more about her misfortunes,
at least as far as its authors are concerned, than you can do. But,
for my sake, I know you will not leave that unhappy girl to her
fate. I have no doubt that on the pretended accusation of opium
smuggling, she will be found guilty, and condemned. I know it but
too well! With our false notions of right and wrong, whenever opium
enters into any question, no other result is, I fear, possible. But,
oh! I beg of you, do not abandon her. Do not allow her, when once she
regains her freedom, to sink into that pool of infamy into which all
her countrymen inevitably fall, when, guilty, or not guilty, they
have once come under the ban of our criminal law. And now, dearest
Charles, farewell! In this world we shall meet no more. I will not,
I cannot, ask you to forget me, a passing thought you will sometimes
bestow upon her who now will bear no other name than

