"Anna."

This letter the poor girl put into the hands of the postmaster,
and it was sent off in due course though not so soon as she wished;
for in those inland parts the mail goes out but twice a week.

Although the distance between Sapoeran and Poerworedjo was not very
great, yet the sun had fairly set before the carriage reached the
latter place. Anna put up at the hotel, and, after having partaken of
some refreshment, she lay down thoroughly wearied out by the journey,
and fortunately she was soon fast asleep.

After this short digression which the thread of our story required,
we return to the Residence at Santjoemeh.

When the secretary left the room, Resident van Gulpendam had bitterly
exclaimed: "Oh, if Anna would but consent!"

For a while he seemed lost in thought and sat turning over in his
mind how matters would have stood if Anna could have persuaded van
Nerekool to give way, and if he, on the conditions proposed to him,
had been appointed President of the court.

"Well!" he muttered at length, "it can't be helped. However, we shall
manage I suppose to weather this Norwester and to get our boat safe
into harbour."

"But," he continued, "what did the secretary mean by alluding to that
clause in the opium-law? Let me see, which was it? Oh yes, I have it,
clause 23. Just let us have another look at it!"

Herewith he took up the bundle of papers which he had replaced among
other documents on the ledge over his writing-table. For some time
he fingered the pages, turning them over impatiently, at length he
exclaimed: "Oh, here we are! No. 228. Now let us see, clause 23--'All
offences committed against the regulations herein laid down to which
no special penalties are attached, are punishable by a fine of one
thousand to ten thousand guilders for every hundred katies of opium
or under, and of one hundred guilders for every additional katie?' By
Jove! the fellow is right after all!--that's where the coast lies,
is it? We shall have to get out another anchor. It is not at all a
bad idea, but--"

