"The inspector requests the honour of an interview with you Kandjeng
toean!" cried one of the oppassers, as he flung open the door to
announce Mr. Meidema.

"Show him in," was the reply.

"Resident," began the inspector as he entered, "I just now met your
secretary, and he told me that you wished to see me."

"Quite right, Mr. Meidema, pray be seated. I have just seen your report
on that smuggling business at Moeara Tjatjing; but I am surprised to
find that your statement does not at all agree with the actual facts
of the case."

"How is that, Resident?"

"No, Mr. Meidema, no it does not. Will you please try to recall our
conversation on the very evening of the discovery?" continued the
Resident with his eye steadily fixed upon his subordinate.

"I remember that conversation perfectly, Resident."

"Well," resumed van Gulpendam, "if my memory serves me, I then pointed
out to you--and I did so by means of witnesses--that the opium was
found in the possession of the Javanese called Ardjan. At the time
you seemed to agree with me."

"Certainly, Resident, I did not just then venture to contradict the
opinion you had formed, and which you so positively stated as your
conviction. It was, however, my duty to investigate the matter--"

"And?"--interrupted van Gulpendam.

"And the result of that investigation has led me to the conclusions I
have embodied in the report of the case which, as head of the police,
it was my duty to draw up."

"Yes," hastily said the Resident, "against all probability, and in
the teeth of the evidence!"

"By your leave, Resident," said Meidema, "the report--"

"Shall I tell you," broke in van Gulpendam, "shall I tell you to what
your investigation has led you?"

But Mr. Meidema, carried away by his argument, paid no heed to the
question, and continued:

"The report, for the matter of that, is not binding upon the court."

"That's a good job too," said van Gulpendam, somewhat sarcastically;
"but I asked you just now to what your inquiry has led you."

