"I next took the evidence of baboe Dalima--"

"Oh, yes, she also is locked up on a charge of opium smuggling; she
has no doubt given her lover a most excellent character. Fine witnesses
those of yours, Mr. Meidema, I must say. Have you any others?"

"Yes," replied the Inspector, quietly, "I have examined the dessa
people who were that night pressed to assist in Ardjan's arrest."

"And?" cried van Gulpendam, impatiently. "Come, look sharp!"

"And their story contradicts, on almost every point, that of the
police oppassers."

"Of course it does, those dessa dogs always hang together; but all
that ought not to have satisfied you as Chief Inspector of Police."

"No, Resident, it ought not, I confess; and what is more, it has
not," continued Meidema. "When the evidence appeared to me so very
contradictory, I myself went down in person to Moeara Tjatjing,
to inspect the boat in which Ardjan is said to have brought the
opium ashore."

"And you found nothing?" inquired van Gulpendam.

"Oh, yes, Resident, I did. I found the surf-boat, and I am fully
satisfied that it was much too small to contain the captured opium."

"If I remember rightly, Mr. Meidema," observed van Gulpendam, "that
boat is said to have held two persons, Ardjan and Dalima?"

"Quite so, Resident."

"The boat then was large enough to hold those two, eh?"

"Yes, Resident, it might have done so; but there was room for nothing
more."

"But," asked van Gulpendam, "supposing now that baboe Dalima never
was in that boat at all--what would you say to that, Mr. Meidema?"

"Never in the boat at all, Resident!" exclaimed the other, in
astonishment.

"In that case," continued the Resident, "I suppose there might have
been room for the opium if carefully stowed away?"

"Well, yes, perhaps," said Meidema; "but the proof--"

"Oh, yes, the proof--I can find you proof enough. I myself can solemnly
declare that, during the whole of that night, baboe Dalima never left
my house at all. And not only so, but all the members of my family
are ready to declare as much."

