"Mr. Meidema," resumed van Gulpendam, "I am merely giving you friendly
advice. You have a large family--there are a good many mouths to
feed. However, think the matter over well."

"No, never, never, Resident!"

"Very well, in that case our interview may be considered at an end. But
don't be in a hurry, think it over well."

When Mr. Meidema had left, the Resident stood for a while gazing after
him. At length, hoarse with passion, he cried out: "That opposition
must be overcome."








CHAPTER XXV.

EVE'S DAUGHTERS AND THE SERPENT.


A couple of days after Mrs. Meidema was sitting with her two daughters
in one of the hinder galleries of her house. Our reader has already
made a slight acquaintance with the pretty pair of twins on the
occasion of the reception and ball at the Residence. They were now
sitting with their mother, very busy mending a heap of boys' clothing
which appeared to be in a deplorable state.

"It is too bad,--really it is shameful," said Gesina. "Now just do
look at this, mother,--why the sleeve is literally torn out of it,
and there is a huge rent right in the breast. I say, mother, do you
think that jacket is worth patching up?"

"To be sure it is, Sijntje," replied the mother, "now just you set
to work with a will."

"Those good-for-nothing boys!" cried Gesina, "they keep us stitching
for them all day long."

"Come, come," threw in her sister Matilda, "boys will be boys, and
ours are so full of spirits."

"That is no reason, I suppose," said Gesina, "why they should be
climbing trees all day, and get their clothes in such a frightful
state."

"How do you suppose a boy is to keep out of a tree?" asked Matilda. "If
I were a boy I would do just the same."

The mother smiled at her daughter's warm defence of her little
brothers. "Oh, yes," said she, "it would be a pretty sight to see
Matilda up a tree."

The two young girls had a laugh at the idea, and then Gesina said,
"Don't you think, mother dear, that you might get us a needlewoman
to help us with all this heap of clothes."

