The difference between her father's income and the pay of Resident
van Gulpendam led Matilda to make this philosophical remark.

"Of course not, Matilda," replied Gesina, "of course not; money is
not everything--look at us now, are we not happy?"

"Yes," said Matilda, "and to complete the comparison, could anyone be
happier even in the Residence itself? Oh, when I come to think over
what has happened, I cannot help feeling very sad. Poor, poor Anna!"

"Have you had any news from her?" asked Gesina, who by this time had
resumed her work.

"Yes, this morning I had a letter from Karang Anjer, such a wretchedly
sad letter. Knowing Anna's character as I do I can read despair
in every word, and I fear--oh, yes, I fear, the very worst--She is
capable, I do really think, of any desperate deed."

"But," cried Gesina, "what can be the matter with her?"

"I do not know the rights of it all," replied her sister. "On those
matters Anna is very reserved; but what I know is that her parents
will not consent to her marriage with van Nerekool."

"Oh, she will soon get tired of Karang Anjer, and then we shall have
her back again."

"I think not; indeed she writes to tell me that it is her intention
never to return. Her letter is so full of sorrow, so miserably
despondent, it reads to me like a last farewell--as it were a parting
for life. She writes to me as her best and truest friend, and beseeches
me not to cast a stone at her should her despair prompt her to a step
which will make the world scorn her memory. Mother dear, what am I
to do, what can I do to relieve her--I wish I could go to see her at
Karang Anjer!"

"My dear child," said Mrs. Meidema quietly, "the very best thing you
can do is to allude as little as possible, in your correspondence with
Anna, to her attachment to van Nerekool. She has, as you yourself say,
not taken you fully into her confidence; and from this you may conclude
that there exist secrets which you cannot, without indiscretion,
touch upon; and which it would only increase her pain to needlessly
pry into. Time is the great healer, and it must have its soothing
effect upon Anna in her distress. I know something of what has been
going on, and I am in hopes that things may yet turn out well."

