"You know what has happened, mother?" cried Matilda, "do tell me all
about it. I am so dearly fond of Anna, that anything which concerns
her has, for me, the greatest interest."

"Matilda," replied Mrs. Meidema, "Anna, who I do not think herself
knows just how matters stand, has thought it right to keep silent
before you. She has, in my opinion, acted very wisely."

"But, mother!"

"Yes, I say, she has acted very wisely in this matter, for she might
perhaps have had to reveal to you a depth of wickedness which a young
girl may very well remain ignorant of. You must allow me to follow
her example. Just now you said, very wisely too, that money is not
everything in the world. You were quite right, it is not. There
now you see before you a family to which money is no object, which
possesses moreover all other requisites for happiness, such as health,
consideration, the highest position in our little society; and yet
you see there is no happiness. No, money is not everything--But yet--"

As she said it, the poor woman heaved a deep sigh. The fact that she
was sitting there with her daughters hard at work, showed plainly
enough that the earthly dross was not altogether so indifferent to
her as her words might seem to imply--and she hesitated to go on--her
girls looked up at her with an inquiring glance.

"But yet?" asked Gesina. "Pray finish what you had to say, mother."

"Well," continued Mrs. Meidema, "I had but very little to add; yet
a couple of hundred guilders a year more would greatly improve our
position. We have very heavy expenses to meet, we have a great deal
of money to find; and--"

The awning which separated the back-gallery from the grounds beyond,
and sheltered it from the glaring light outside, was here suddenly
flung aside, admitting a dazzling flood of sunlight which made the
three ladies look up in surprise.

"Babah Lim Yang Bing wishes to speak with the master," said one of
the servants.

"But your master is not in, he is at his office," replied Mrs. Meidema,
"you know that as well as I do."

