"I do not see," said Mrs. Meidema, "in what Lim Ho can need my
intercession."

"Ah, well," sighed Lim Yang Bing, "I fear that the poor boy is not
in very good odour with the Assistant Resident. If only you would
speak a good word for him, madam."

"But why? His marriage can have nothing to do with Mr. Meidema."

"No, njonja; but--" said the Chinaman dropping his voice, "You see
there is something about an opium business in which the poor boy has
got mixed up."

"I will have nothing whatever to do with that sort of thing!" exclaimed
Mrs. Meidema now fairly frightened. "There, babah, please put those
samples up again."

The Chinaman was taken aback, he reluctantly rolled up the parcel
and slowly and deliberately put it into his pocket.

"But, njonja," he mumbled, "the poor fellow is as innocent as the
babe unborn."

"I won't hear anything about it, babah, not another word, please,
on the subject."

"If only the toean Assistant Resident would hear what he has to say,"
insisted Lim Yang Bing.

"Come, mother," whispered Gesina, who, to her infinite vexation saw
the splendid silk dress fading away on the horizon, "If father would
but hear what Lim Ho has to say for himself."

Mrs. Meidema again hesitated.

"Well," said she, "if my intercession is to go no further than that--I
can see no objection to ask my husband to do that."

"Mother, take care!" said Matilda in a very low but very warning voice.

"I am infinitely obliged to the njonja," said the Chinaman as he took
Mrs. Meidema's hand and gratefully pressed it. "I shall leave these
samples here with you--"

"Oh, no! no! I will have nothing to do with them."

"But, mother," whispered Gesina.

"Mother, take care!" said Matilda as softly.

Lim Yang Bing did not at all like these whisperings of the two young
ladies, and so he hastened to say: "My dear madam, I can assure you
that those poor samples have nothing in the world to do with your
pleading for my son. I have the honour of inviting you and your two
charming daughters--and of course, Mr. Meidema--to be present at my
son's marriage. There is not much harm in that I hope. I reckon you
among my good friends and, as an acknowledgment of the honour which
your presence will confer upon them, the young couple beg you to
accept a slight present. In that no one will see any harm I hope;
in fact it is simply our national custom. So far, I think we are
agreed. This small parcel of samples I will leave here in order that
the ladies may have time to make their choice and to talk over the
whole matter with the Assistant Resident when he comes in."

