Put thus plausibly, the offer could hardly be refused. But even if
Mrs. Meidema had wished to make an objection she had no time to do so;
for the wily Chinaman had very hurriedly put down the parcel on the
table, had muttered his tabehs with a few hasty words to the effect
that he intended to look in again and ascertain what choice the ladies
had made, and then had disappeared.

When once the babah was fairly out of the place, the two young girls
looked at each other and at their mother.

Gesina with a smile on her pretty lips, Matilda with a very serious
expression of countenance.

"A Chinese wedding!" exclaimed the former. "No doubt there will be
a reception and then, what a splendid dance we shall have. When the
Chinese do give a party they know how to do it well!"

"Do keep quiet, Sijntje," said Mrs. Meidema. She spoke reprovingly,
although, as a loving mother, she was pleased to see her girl's radiant
looks. They had so few opportunities to go out, especially to such
parties as this promised to be. Once a year they got an invitation
to the Residence, and that was all.

"And how fine I shall look," continued the girl in her glee, "in my new
silk dress." She took the parcel from the table, "Oh, yes," said she,
"I have quite made up my mind, I choose the green silk. And you Tilda?"

"I don't know," replied the other, "but somehow, I feel that all this
bodes misfortune."

"Oh, I say, how very silly! Just look at these samples!" cried Gesina
as she opened the bundle. "Oh, what a splendid bit of brown silk--look
mother, dear, that is something for you! And that deep blue is Tilda's
choice; it is fine, yes it is very fine; but the green is to my mind
the best of all. Just look--But--But--what is that!"

Gesina was spreading the piece of silk on her knee in order to
bring out the fine effect of the colours. As she did so--something
slid out of the packet and fell at her feet. For a moment the three
ladies sat there as if petrified, for at a glance they had recognized
bank-notes--papers of five hundred guilders. At length Gesina stooped
and picked them up. She counted them, one, two, three--up to ten.

