"Five thousand guilders!" she stammered in utter confusion. "How
could they have got into the parcel? It must be some mistake of the
babah's--surely he must have made some mistake."

"I feared as much!" thought Matilda almost aloud.

"Five thousand guilders!" The thought flashed through Mrs. Meidema's
brain as she took the parcel and the papers from her daughter's hand,
"Five thousand guilders!"

Her first impulse was to send at once after the babah and to call
him back--to give him his money, and to have him and his samples and
his notes kicked out of the house. Five thousand guilders! And the
Chinaman was already so far away. Five thousand guilders! Was it wise
to let the servants know all this--no certainly not--it would not be
wise. Five thousand guilders! It was about as much as her husband's
salary for ten months amounted to. She took up the notes, looked at
them, smoothed them down one by one, then rolled them together. Five
thousand guilders! That would pay all those troublesome tradesmen's
bills, and even then, when every farthing was paid, there would be a
nice little sum left. Then Meidema might get leave of absence for a
while to go into the hill-country. He wanted a change, lately he had
been looking very poorly--a couple of weeks' holidays in the hills
would quite set him up. Five thousand guilders! The boys might have
new jackets. All these thoughts however were cut short by the rumbling
of carriage wheels on the drive.

"That is father!" cried Gesina, "quick! put away those samples
and notes!"

She tried to seize them, she had already hastily rolled up the whole
parcel together and was about to hide it under the coarse needlework
with which they had been busy as the Chinaman came in. But her mother
took it from her and quietly laid it upon the table before her. The
voice of her husband was heard in the front gallery giving some orders
to his servant, and that voice had startled the good woman out of the
train of evil thoughts which had unconsciously risen up within her, and
which had threatened to lead her astray from the path of duty. No, no,
from the man by whose side she had courageously walked for the best
part of her life, she could have no secret; from him, whom she had
followed for so many years in weal and in woe, she would have nothing
hidden. She determined to lay everything open before her husband,
he might then act as he thought best. True, they were very poor;
but she felt that she must abide by his decision.

