"Well, father," said Matilda suddenly growing serious, "now please
sit down and attend to mother."

"Yes, Meidema, please sit down," said his wife; "I have to talk to
you on a most serious matter."

"All right, wifey--here I am seated--now I am all ears."

"Babah Lim Yang Bing has been here this morning!"

"Indeed!--I met him a few minutes ago, he greeted me most
politely--more politely in fact than usually."

"Do you know, Meidema, what he came here for?"

"What he came here for? Not I," replied the husband somewhat astonished
at his wife's words. The name of the opium-farmer had roused some
suspicion within him though he was unable to guess what his errand
might have been. "I suppose," said he, after a moment's pause,
"I suppose he merely dropped in to have a chat."

"Do you know," said Mrs. Meidema, "that his son Lim Ho is about to
be married?"

"Yes, I have heard some such rumour. To the daughter of that rich
old Chinaman--is it not?"

"Yes, father," interrupted Gesina, "to pretty little Ngow Ming Nio."

"Lim Yang Bing," continued Mrs. Meidema, "was here this morning to
invite you and me and the girls to the wedding."

"All right," replied Meidema, "the girls will have rare fun; I daresay
you know," he continued, as he patted the cheek of one of the twins,
"you know a Chinese marriage is a most interesting ceremony. Is that
then the reason why you all look so solemn? Oh, aye--I see--it is
about the dresses. The other day when the Resident gave his ball we
had some trouble about that. It is a great expense no doubt; but--"

"No, Meidema, that is not troubling me, for the Chinaman offers us
a present."

"A present!" shouted the Assistant Resident.

"Yes, he tells me that, on such occasions, they always give presents."

"Quite right--some sweetmeats, a few cakes, perhaps. But what of that?"

"No, no," said his wife, "not sweetmeats at all; but silk for dresses."

"Silk!" cried Meidema, "the fellow must have gone mad! I never have
heard of any such presents; and yet I have been a good while in India."

