"He has even left some samples here with us," continued Mrs. Meidema,
"very fine silk, I assure you, most splendid quality. But there was
one slight condition attached to his gift."

"Indeed! a condition! what might that be?"

"That I should intercede with you for Lim Ho."

"For Lim Ho--oh, oh! and what did you say to that?"

"I told him I would have nothing to do with it."

"Where are these samples?" cried Meidema. "Hand them to me, I will
fling them into the fire."

"Now Meidema, do be quiet for a bit!"

"Intercede for Lim Ho! So! they thought to bribe you with a yard or
two of silk!"

"No, no Meidema, not only with a yard or two of silk--just open
that parcel."

The inspector tore it open, and, in his excitement he cried, "Where
is it?"

The banknotes fell to the ground. Pale and utterly unnerved he picked
them up, he opened them, looked at his wife and daughters with a stern
look; but he spoke not a word. At length, breaking out into a curse,
he crumpled up the whole parcel of samples and notes together into
one formless mass as he hoarsely cried: "The devil take that d--d
Chinaman! the fellow shall pay for this!" And calling to his servant
he cried: "Todrono, have the horses put in!"

Ten seconds later he had dashed out of the room.








CHAPTER XXVI.

NEATLY MANAGED.


"Yes, Resident, I accuse the opium farmer of a gross attempt at
bribery."

Such were the words with which Mr. Meidema concluded his detailed
account to Mr. van Gulpendam of what had taken place at his house
that morning.

"Avast! Mr. Meidema, steady a bit! You are going ahead much too
fast. Can you be quite sure that the five thousand guilders were
concealed in that parcel of silk samples for the purpose of bribery?"

"I have already told you, Resident, that what he came for was to
induce my wife to exert her influence over me in favour of Lim Ho. Yes,
most decidedly. I know that the money was intended for a bribe."

"But, Mr. Meidema," observed the Resident, "would it not be much more
charitable to suppose that Lim Yang Bing, who is, by nature, a kind and
generous man, really felt some concern at your financial difficulties?"

