"My financial difficulties!" exclaimed Meidema, fairly white with
rage. "I should like to find out who spreads those absurd rumours. I
am not rich, I admit; but if every man's affairs were in as good
order as mine! Then--"

"Let us not get out of our course, my dear sir," remarked van
Gulpendam, interrupting him at the right moment.

"Very good, Resident, I do not wish to do so; but who gives that
confounded Chinaman any right to trouble himself about my private
affairs. What right has he to offer my wife and daughters presents
of five thousand guilders?"

"But, can you be sure it was meant for a gift?"

"What else could the money have been meant for?" asked Meidema.

"Well, I don't know," replied van Gulpendam, "but might not the notes
have got mixed up with the samples of silk purely by accident? You
ought to know how carelessly such fellows handle paper money, they
sometimes have a whole bundle of it loose in their pockets. Now I am
persuaded, on the contrary, that when presently you meet Lim Yang
Bing the whole business will be explained to your satisfaction. I
will send for him. Have you any objection?"

"None whatever, Resident; but the fellow may say or swear what he
likes; it will not alter my opinion, and nothing will make me retract
my charge against him."

"Don't be in such a hurry to blow off steam, Mr. Meidema, just allow
me to prick your chart for you, and you will soon see that you are
out of your course altogether."

Hereupon van Gulpendam called one of his oppassers, and ordered
the man to mount, and to ride off full speed to the opium farmer's
house. "Tell him I want him to come to me at once."

The two gentlemen had hardly spent half-an-hour in conversation on
the ordinary topics of the day, when an elegant carriage, drawn by
two splendid Persian horses, dashed up to the gate of the residential
mansion. A few moments later a servant announced the opium farmer.

"Show him in," said the Resident.

Lim Yang Bing sauntered into the room with his usual listless
air and with the stereotyped smile on his lips. The oppasser
had already told him that he would find the Assistant Resident of
Police with his Excellency, and he looked upon this as a good sign;
and had no doubt but that his troublesome smuggling question would
be settled off-hand. He therefore greeted the gentlemen with great
cordiality. "Tabeh, Kandjeng toean, toean!"

