The Resident pointed to a chair, and as soon as Lim Yang Bing was
seated, he began:

"Babah, Assistant Resident Meidema, fancies that he has reason to
complain of your conduct."

"No, no!" exclaimed Meidema, interrupting his superior officer, "I
do not fancy anything of the kind, I actually do lodge an accusation
against him."

Both gentlemen spoke in Malay, and the Chinaman was thus able to
understand all that was said.

"And what cause of complaint may he have?" asked the Celestial,
with his imperturbable smile.

"You ask me," replied Meidema, "what I accuse you of? I will tell
you. I accuse you of offering me a bribe--to me, the head of the
police!"

"I, Kandjeng toean?" asked the Chinaman, with well acted
surprise. "When could I have done such a thing?"

"Not much more than an hour ago," was the reply. "Just now, this very
morning at my own house!"

"The toean Assistant Resident must be poking fun at me. It is true that
I met him a little while ago; but I had not the honour of exchanging
so much as a single word with him."

"I know that well enough," interrupted Meidema impetuously; "but did
you not this morning call at my house?"

The Chinaman looked upon the interview as a farce, in which every actor
had to play his part. He had often acted in such little plays himself
and had performed pretty creditably on such occasions. He continued
therefore; "Oh, yes, Kandjeng toean, I did pay your ladies a visit,
it was to invite you and them to the wedding, just in the same way,
and for the same purpose, as I called at the Residence to invite the
njonja and his Excellency."

"Indeed!" said Meidema, sarcastically, "I suppose you came to offer
silk dresses to the njonja Resident? Eh?"

Lim Yang Bing winced under the blow; and his sallow face grew several
shades paler. It was beginning to dawn upon him that matters were
serious after all, and, in some confusion, he glanced at the Resident;
but van Gulpendam, who was seated directly opposite to the Assistant
Resident, could not, just then, make him any sign; yet Lim Yang Bing
thought he could detect an encouraging expression in the Resident's
eye.

