"And," continued Meidema, with increasing vehemence, "that you offered
the njonja Resident a roll of bank-notes also. Did you not?"

As he spoke these words, he flung the money down before him on the
writing-table as if it burned his fingers.

At this the Chinaman turned livid--for a moment he was utterly
confounded.

"There! you see, Resident!" continued Meidema, pointing to the
farmer. "You see! Why, guilt is written in every line of the fellow's
face!"

At these words Lim Yang Bing recovered his presence of mind, he
jumped up at once, snatched up the crumpled notes, spread them out
before him, and began deliberately to count them, "one, two, three,
four--ten." Then slowly raising his expressionless eyes to Meidema's
face, he asked:

"Does the toean Assistant Resident really intend to accuse me of
attempting to bribe him?"

"Yes, babah, I do most decidedly accuse you of it."

"But, may I ask, why then does not the Kandjeng toean give me back
the whole sum?" asked the Chinaman, very composedly, and with the
usual smirk on his lips.

"The whole sum?" cried Meidema, utterly taken aback, "what on earth
can the fellow mean?"

"Yes, toean," replied Lim Yang Bing, "I said, the whole sum. I have
felt for some time that the toean Assistant Resident is by no means
kindly disposed to me or mine; but I think it is not quite fair of him
to fling me back a small part of my money, and so to try and ruin me,
while he keeps back the greater part for himself."

All this he said without showing the slightest emotion, without the
slightest heat, without so much as even raising his voice; but in
the drawling sing-song way in which Chinamen generally speak; and
with the obsequious smirk which Chinese features always wear when
the owner is addressing a superior.

"Babah!" shouted Meidema trembling with rage, "take care of yourself,
don't go too far!"

But Lim Yang Bing felt his advantage, and was not to be
intimidated. With the same false smile and in the same drawling tones
he continued:

