The Chinaman and the Resident watched him with a curious smile.

"Splendidly parried, babah!" cried van Gulpendam admiringly, and then
muttering to himself, he said: "I wonder what port that obstinate
fool will make for in this storm."

"Perhaps the Kandjeng toean will now allow me to retire?" asked Lim
Yang Bing, with much humility.

"Certainly, babah, certainly, let me not detain you." And, after the
usual compliments had been exchanged, the Chinaman took his leave.

"Deep fellow that Chinaman, devilish deep! Aye, aye, those who dabble
in opium must have their wits about them, they must know how to trim
their sails!"

Foaming with rage, Meidema got home. He could not wait until his
carriage had reached the door; it had scarcely got into the grounds,
before he jumped out crying to the coachman, "Wait for me!"

He traversed the fore and inner galleries at a bound, and when he
reached the back-room where the ladies of his family were still
sitting at their needlework, he flew up to his wife, who, noticing
at once his excited state, rose from her chair. He grasped both her
wrists in his iron grasp, and, exerting all his strength, he forced
her down on her knees before him.

All this had passed so quickly that, although the two girls had also
sprung up, yet neither of them understood what was going on.

"There!" roared the infuriated husband, "there! that is your proper
position! And now answer me. Where is the rest of the money?"

"What money?" asked his wife in alarm.

"The ten thousand guilders!" thundered Meidema.

"What ten thousand guilders?" asked his unhappy wife, still on her
knees. "Meidema! let go my wrists, you are hurting me!"

"No, I shall not let you go until you have told me where you have
hidden the money."

"What money are you talking about?"

"The ten thousand guilders you had from the opium farmer!"

"Father," said Gesina, "let mother go, and listen to me, I will tell
you all about it."

"You!" roared her father without releasing his wife whom he still
kept kneeling before him.

