"A queer story you call it, Resident. You mean, I suppose, a most
infamous business!"

"He, he, he! Mr. Meidema, not quite so fast if you please."

"But, Resident, what do you mean--Do you not then think it a most
infamous business?"

"Oh, yes, most certainly I do; but the question is for whom?"

"For whom? Is that the question, Resident? Then it appears to me you
do not believe me."

"Don't be in a hurry, Mr. Meidema, just listen quietly to me."

"But, Resident, this is a matter which demands an instant
explanation. If you do not take my word--"

"Now, Mr. Assistant Resident, I beg you will allow me to speak."

These words Mr. van Gulpendam uttered with that measured tone of voice,
and with that dignity which only a Resident knows how to assume. They
brought about an immediate and entire change in his subordinate's
demeanour. Meidema at once mastered his excitement, he replied not
a single word; but only bowed in sign that he was ready to listen.

"I said just now," began the Resident, "'a queer story' and now I
repeat the words--Yes, it is a very queer story, a very queer story
indeed. I will for a moment suppose, Mr. Meidema, that you are an
honest man."

The Assistant Resident gnashed his teeth and writhed with inward
passion at the insinuation; but he uttered not a sound. He had made up
his mind, outwardly at least, to retain his composure, and to listen
in silence.

Without appearing to notice Meidema's evident anguish, the Resident
continued:

"I am ready to admit, for argument's sake, that you are an honest man;
but I think you yourself must allow that appearances are terribly
against you. Just put yourself in the position of a Resident; put
yourself in my place. I am bound by my office to inquire into these
matters calmly and impartially, without fear or prejudice, and,
I must add without sympathy either; and then just see on what side
probabilities have been accumulating. It is known to everyone, that
you are in serious money difficulties--that is an open secret--and,
I must tell you, that in your public capacity as chief magistrate,
that common report is most injurious to you. When a man is in grave
pecuniary difficulties, it is almost impossible to make the public
believe that he can be impartial, inaccessible to bribes and strictly
honest. The temptations, you see, are too great. On the one side
there are tempting offers, which always manage to find a way for
themselves, on the other there are the claims of his family, claims
which have a powerful voice, and which clamour to be heard. Public
opinion, therefore, needs must be against you. Under these painful
circumstances, the opium farmer comes to your house and offers
presents, in the form of silk dresses, to your wife and daughters,
and he offers further a considerable bribe in the tangible shape of
money. Now, do you think that you can make anyone believe that all
this could occur without there having been some previous relations
between you, some quiet understanding to encourage such bare-faced
proposals? Surely not! You have told me with your own lips that
the opium farmer came to invoke the aid of your wife. Therefore,
he must have had some good cause to believe that not only could her
aid be purchased; but also that her intercession, when obtained,
would be of some value to him. Now, if you are compelled to grant me
all this--why, then I say that you can hardly wonder if I come to the
conclusion that she was not to-day solicited for the first time. At
all events, you must allow that an impartial judge might very easily
come to that conclusion. Now this is not all, there is yet another
point to be considered. You have yourself confessed that, at least for
a time, you yourself believed Mrs. Meidema guilty. Your description
of the scene--the deplorable scene--which has just now taken place
at your house, amply proves that. And, let me say in passing that
I most strongly disapprove of such want of temper and of such want
of self-control in my subordinates; but that in the particular case
which I have now before me, I am willing to excuse it. However, as I
was saying, the scene of which you gave me so graphic a description,
amply proves that you yourself did not consider Mrs. Meidema above
suspicion."

