Poor Meidema! He sat there before the pitiless inquisitor, pale as
death, motionless as a statue. His bloodshot eyes gazed stonily at the
Resident who, with a kind of refinement of cruelty, seemed to delight
in probing his wound to the quick. At that moment the wretched man
sat there accusing himself more bitterly than van Gulpendam or any
one else on earth could have done. The voice of conscience is, to
the upright man, the most terrible voice of all. Yes--it was but too
true, he had been guilty of suspecting the wife of his bosom, he had
thought evil of his two innocent daughters. The Resident was pitiless;
but he was quite right. And then, alas! that was not the worst of it;
his conscience had a still louder reproach to make. He had been so
miserably weak that he had not been able to keep that foul suspicion
to himself--he had not been man enough to keep it locked up in his
own bosom. Honest and loyal as he was himself, he had fancied that
the truth--the whole truth--would have proved the strongest bulwark
for innocence. Thus, in a moment of blind honesty, he had, for no
other purpose than to bring out more strongly the innocence of his
family, betrayed to his enemy the excess of violence into which his
wild frenzy had led him. And now, the weapon to which he had fondly
trusted for his defence, had turned in his hand; not against himself
only, but also against those dear ones of whose perfect purity he
had no longer the faintest shadow of a doubt. The thought was too
terrible to bear, it was maddening--his eyes began to ache as though a
red-hot iron were pressed upon them. But, unmindful of his sufferings,
his pitiless tormentor quietly continued:

"From all this must we not then reasonably conclude, Mr. Meidema, that
your wife, terrified--and very naturally terrified--at your unreasoning
violence, must have confined herself to a simple denial after she
had attempted to mislead you in the matter of the ten thousand
guilders? You see," continued the Resident with a friendly smile,
"after all, the best thing is, that we should give that aspect to a
most lamentable occurrence; one cannot very well hold you responsible
for the actions of your wife."

