At these words Meidema could restrain himself no longer. "No!" shouted
he, "that suspicion shall not be cast upon her--my wife is innocent!"

"Mr. Meidema," said van Gulpendam, in tones of mock sympathy, "let
me implore you to take my advice, and to consider well what you are
about. Once you let go that anchor, I have no other alternative than--"

He paused, even he seemed to hesitate, even he recoiled from what he
was about to say.

"No other alternative than--what?" asked Meidema, with something of
the listlessness of despair.

"Than to consider you the guilty man and to hold that your family
are in conspiracy with you."

"Resident!"

"Be calm, pray be calm! Remember it is not I who choose the
alternative--you yourself force it upon me. Once again, let me remind
you of your financial difficulties; let me remind you of the animosity
which, in your report, you plainly show to Lim Ho. In that paper you
eagerly seize upon every little circumstance which can possibly be
adduced to prove him guilty; and you as carefully avoid everything
which might point to Ardjan as the culprit. In fact you screen the
Javanese in every way you possibly can. Taking all these things
into consideration, the words spoken just now by the opium-farmer
must needs give us food for reflection. You remember what he said,
do you not? His words were blunt and cruel, I admit; but he seems
to have had justice on his side. 'He wants,' said the Chinaman,
'to keep for himself the greater part of the present which I offered
to the njonja, and he intends in addition to secure the fine which
Lim Ho will have to pay if he be found guilty.' A fine which we know
could not be screwed out of Ardjan. And when, in connection with those
words we come to examine the 23rd clause of the Opium Act, why, then
I do not think that many words will be needed to convince you that
you must not venture to reckon upon either my sympathy or my support."

Meidema, poor wretched man, was utterly crushed and
annihilated. Without uttering a sound, he sat vacantly staring at
his chief.

