Van Gulpendam had, in the overflowing kindness of his heart,
accompanied his friends to the ship's side. He had warmly pressed
Mrs. Meidema's hand and uttered the kindliest sentiments at
parting. Then, when the ship was but a speck on the horizon, he
uttered a deep sigh of relief, and with a pleasant smile, he muttered
to himself: "Come, I have managed that pretty neatly."








CHAPTER XXVII.

SUMMUM JUS SUMMA INJURIA. FATHER AND SON CONDEMNED.
MURDER OF SINGOMENGOLO.


A couple of days later, Mr. Zuidhoorn left Santjoemeh. He started
for Batavia in one of the Dutch Indian Navigation Company's ships,
intending to take a passage to Singapore in the Emirne. From Singapore
he was to go to Marseilles in the Irrawady of the Messageries
Maritimes. He was, as we have seen, a thoroughly honest man; and he
had fully made up his mind to let the authorities at Batavia know
all that had occurred at the last session in Santjoemeh. He intended
to act in this matter as prudently as possible; but yet was resolved
that the officials at the head-quarters should be fully informed of the
shameful intrigues that were carried on in the interior. But--between
the forming of a good resolution and the carrying out of it, there
is a vast difference, as Mr. Zuidhoorn was soon to discover.

He had but three days to stay in Batavia, and he found that he could
not, in these three days, obtain an interview with the Governor
General. Mr. Zuidhoorn had taken the trouble to go all the way
to Buitenzorg; but it was only to find that, on the very day of
his arrival, his Excellency had, in the early morning, started
for Tjipannas. The only thing, therefore, that he could do was to
wait till the morrow, and then take a carriage and drive to that
place. Mr. Zuidhoorn took the precaution of telegraphing to the
adjutant on duty, and as he received no answer to his telegram,
he started the next morning for Tjipannas. He was doomed to be
once again disappointed; for when he arrived, he was told that,
unfortunately, His Excellency the Governor was confined to his room
by a severe attack of fever, and that no one could be admitted to his
presence. The aide-de-camp made this announcement with a profusion
of excuses, and tried to explain that he had not been able to send a
reply to the telegram because His Excellency had not been taken ill
until late in the night.

