There was no help for it, and Mr. Zuidhoorn had to hurry back, as
best he could, to Batavia; cursing his unlucky star. But in these
fruitless efforts to gain the Governor's ears, two precious days had
been wasted, and he had but one left.

On the following morning Mr. Zuidhoorn called upon the Chief
Justice. This gentleman received him with a cordiality which was
somewhat too boisterous to be real.

"Here you are at length, my dear Zuidhoorn!" cried he, as, with
much outward show of friendship, he grasped his hand. "Indeed, I am
delighted to see you! I have been alarming myself so dreadfully about
the state of your health, that it is a positive relief to see you as
well as you are. I thought your indisposition was much more serious. I
am glad to find you are not so very bad after all; but it is getting
high time for you to go away for a bit and get a little rest."

Mr. Zuidhoorn did not know what to make of all this. "You thought me
very ill?" he asked in surprise. "What do you mean? I don't remember,
in any of my letters, that I represented my state of health as worse
than it really is. And then 'high time to get away?' I assure you I
do not understand what you mean. I was not at all anxious to leave."

"I suppose not," rejoined the Chief Justice, "I suppose not; but I
know you are beginning to feel the effect of the climate."

"Of the climate?" repeated Zuidhoorn still more puzzled.

"Yes! yes! you see, when we Europeans are forced to live in the
tropics for any considerable time, then, in some cases, nervous
debility begins to set in, frequently accompanied by weakening or
softening of the brain--"

"My dear sir," cried Zuidhoorn, "your hints--"

"Are not in the least applicable to you! My dear Zuidhoorn, I know
that as well as you do; but pray let me finish what I was going to
say. Some men, I observed, begin to suffer from debility and impaired
brain-power--others grow nervous, excitable, irritable--"

"Chief Justice!" cried Zuidhoorn, "is that the case with me?"

