"As a rule," continued the other without noticing the interruption,
"as a rule the patient is, in such cases, wholly unconscious of his
condition; and is under the impression that he continues to speak
and act precisely as he was always wont to do."

"Is such the case with me?" again asked Zuidhoorn, repeating his
question.

"Well, yes, my dear colleague, I am sorry to say that, to a certain
extent, it is. You yourself are not aware of it, of course: but yet
to your friends the style in which you write has, of late, betrayed
a degree of irritability which you, as an excellent juris peritus,
know is scarcely desirable in a high legal functionary."

"But my dear sir!" exclaimed Zuidhoorn, "I am not at all aware--"

"Quantum est quod nescimus!" interrupted the other.

"Well," continued Zuidhoorn, "it is a very curious thing that no one
has ever dropped the slightest hint to me of any such infirmity."

"True enough, my dear colleague; but nevertheless it has been noticed
for some little time. At first I looked upon it merely as a result
of the extreme interest which we know you take in the discharge
of your duties. But it soon became evident to your friends that it
was a symptom of failing health: and, as you know perfectly well,
in our profession especially, it is of the utmost importance that
there should be meus sana in corpore sano."

Mr. Zuidhoorn was utterly amazed, as well as fairly disgusted. Was
that then the impression which his long and conscientious services
had made upon his superiors at head-quarters? Was that the reward for
the many years of anxious work which he had bestowed upon his office?

"But, my dear sir," said he, "you will, I suppose, not object to
give me a single instance in which that supposed infirmity of mine
has manifested itself to you?"

"A single instance! my worthy friend, why! I will give you ten,
twenty if you like!"

"I ask you but for one," was Zuidhoorn's reply.

"Very well then," said the Chief Justice, "look at that recent business
of the Santjoemeh sessions."

