"Not only do I disapprove of it," replied the Chief Justice, "but the
Governor General also is extremely annoyed at the attitude you have
chosen to assume in this case. In his opinion the line of conduct you
have thought it right to adopt has seriously impaired the prestige
which ought to belong to your position."

"Oh, indeed! is that his Excellency's opinion?" asked Mr. Zuidhoorn
musingly. "Now I begin to see why I have not been admitted to an
audience."

"Have you tried to obtain one?"

"Yes, I have," was the reply. "The day before yesterday I went to
Buitenzorg--yesterday I went on to Tjipannas--"

"And--?"

"I was told by the aide-de-camp on duty that his Excellency was ill
in bed and could see no one."

"You see!" exclaimed the Chief Justice. "What did I tell you?"

"But, my dear sir," interposed Zuidhoorn, "the most scandalous
proceedings are going on. For the sake of shielding a wealthy opium
farmer, a poor devil of a Javanese--!"

"Has been falsely accused--and will in all probability, be found
guilty in spite of his innocence," remarked the Chief Justice with
a cynical smile. "Oh, yes, we know all about it, you have put the
whole question most clearly and most circumstantially before us. But
what are we to do? We are powerless, and must bend our heads to the
storm. You know summum jus, summa injuria."

Mr. Zuidhoorn was leaning his head on his hand as his colleague spoke
thus; and was vacantly, almost hopelessly, staring before him.

"Let me give you a friendly piece of advice, my dear colleague,"
resumed the Chief Justice kindly; "the fact is you are not at
all well--you are more seriously indisposed than you yourself are
aware of. To-morrow you mean to sail in the Emirne, eh? Very well,
my advice to you is to leave all these worries and bothers behind you
in Batavia; fling off all these anxieties, and go to Europe to recruit
your failing strength. In a couple of years' time you will return with
fresh vigour--a new man, in fact, in mind and body--and then you will
for many years to come continue to be an ornament to a profession in
which, allow me to tell you, very few can compete with you. And now
you must excuse me. My time is very precious and-- Oh, yes, one other
recommendation let me give you before taking leave. For the future,
pray take the greatest care never to meddle in any way, if you can
possibly help it, with any of the complications and intrigues of the
opium trade. I need hardly tell you that it is an imperium in imperio
and, to this I may add, malum malo proximum; in all such matters, he
who touches pitch must be defiled. And now--I can only wish you a quick
and pleasant voyage and a happy time in the old country. Good-bye,
my dear Zuidhoorn, good-bye. A pleasant journey to you!"

