The two cases of opium smuggling, the one at the Moeara Tjatjing
and the other arising out of the discovery in the hut of Pak
Ardjan at Kaligaweh, did not come on at once before the court at
Santjoemeh. Resident van Gulpendam was delighted when he heard from
the Chief Justice at Batavia, that, owing to the scarcity of legal
men at head quarters, there was no chance whatever of filling up,
for some time to come, the vacancy caused by Mr. Zuidhoorn's departure.

The sittings of the court at which the Resident now had to preside,
were held, as usual, regularly once a week; but Mr. van Gulpendam
found no difficulty, on one pretext or another, in putting off the
hearing of the opium cases from week to week.

At length, however, the chief djaksa had informed him that the two
Chinamen, Than Khan and Liem King, who had been on watch in the djaga
monjet, could nowhere be found. Presently it was found that Awal
Boep Said, the captain of the schooner brig, Kiem Ping Hin, on whose
testimony Ardjan chiefly relied, had also disappeared without leaving
a trace behind him. Then van Gulpendam thought that the proper time
had come to bring up the prisoners for trial.

Ardjan had to confess that on the February night in question, he had
come ashore in very stormy weather; that the boat of the Matamata
had chased him and had fired upon him; but he was quite unable to
prove that the opium discovered, not far from the spot where his
surf-boat was driven ashore, had not been landed by him. Thus all
the evidence was against him. Then he called upon Dalima to prove
that she was seated with him in the boat. The president, however,
assured the court that the girl had not, on that night, left the
grounds of the Residence, and that her testimony, therefore, must be a
mere tissue of falsehood and of no value whatever--that it could not
in any case invalidate the evidence already produced. The Resident
further drew the court's attention to the fact that Dalima herself
was about to be put on trial for a precisely similar offence--a fact
which could not but affect the weight of her testimony. The court
thus came to the conclusion that it was perfectly useless to call so
tainted a witness. Moreover the chief djaksa deposed that Pak Ardjan,
the prisoner's father, had confessed that the smuggled opium which
Singomengolo had found in his cabin, had been supplied to him by his
son. Thus the guilt of the prisoner was clearly established and Ardjan
was, accordingly, found guilty of an attempt at smuggling one and a
half pikols of pure opium which was equivalent to about three pikols
of raw material. This brought the case under the 23rd clause of the
Act, and the court condemned him to three years' penal servitude,
and further to pay a fine of three thousand guilders. In default of
payment, he was to have three months' compulsory labour on the public
works for every hundred guilders. Ardjan was, therefore, doomed to
what virtually came to eight years' penal servitude. The poor victim
of this gross miscarriage of justice gnashed his teeth with impotent
rage when he heard the sentence. Could he have expected more lenient
treatment at the hands of the white men? Perhaps he had, poor fellow!

