After the son, the father--after Ardjan, Pak Ardjan.

His case was treated in a still more off-hand manner if possible,
than his son's.

The prisoner had confessed that he had smuggled opium in his
possession. Entrapped by artful cross-examination; and without having
the slightest suspicion how heavily his testimony would weigh against
his son Ardjan, he had admitted that the latter used, from time to
time, to supply him with the drug. He had further been forced to
confess that he had wrenched a sword from one of the oppassers and,
in consequence of the fellow's grossly indecent conduct towards his
little daughter, had dealt the wretch a couple of slashing blows with
his own weapon. But hardly any notice whatever was taken of these
extenuating circumstances--they were, in fact, not inquired into at
all. The wretched father was there and then found guilty of having
illegally in his possession two katties of opium. As this was his
first offence, he could only be sentenced to forfeit the captured
wares and to undergo three months' hard labour. But on the other
charge, that namely, of having offered resistance to the police and
of having wounded one of the officers in the execution of his duty,
he was sentenced to ten years' penal servitude.

Thus father and son were both satisfactorily disposed of. The
latter, though perfectly innocent, was sent to penal servitude for
eight years. The former, for a very simple offence, for which only a
trifling penalty could be inflicted, had not the infamous conduct of
the searchers driven him to resistance, was sent to penal servitude
for ten years. The Chief Justice at Batavia fixed upon Atjeh as the
place where the culprits should serve their time; but--before the
order could arrive at Santjoemeh--both Ardjan and his father had
managed to make their escape.

It was an awful night, dark as pitch, while a terrible thunderstorm
had burst over Santjoemeh. The young native soldier who was on
sentry-duty inside the outer wall of the prison, had been driven to
seek for shelter within his sentry-box, terrified by the flashes of
lightning, the deafening claps of thunder, and the torrents of rain;
when, suddenly, he felt an iron grip upon his throat. Before he had
time to utter a sound, a blow from a heavy piece of wood stretched
him senseless on the ground. Meanwhile the thunder kept on rattling
and the rain came splashing down with redoubled fury--such rain as
is only seen in the tropics. Of these circumstances, so favourable
to their flight, the fugitives made the best use. Nimble and strong,
as a good sailor must be, Ardjan was able to help his father to gain
the top of the wall, then he soon managed to clamber up himself. Once
firmly seated, he lowered the old man to the ground on the other side,
and, in a twinkling, he was at his side. Not one of the sentries on
duty outside the wall was to be seen, they also, in such dreadful
weather, had got under cover. The rain still poured down in torrents,
and the water was coursing over the plain beyond and dashing down
the streets as if all the rivers in the country had broken their
bounds. Outside the prison wall all was darkness. One solitary oil-lamp
was flickering in a lantern; but it only shed a sickly and feeble light
in its immediate neighbourhood, while its wretched little glimmers
served but to make more palpable the darkness beyond. Just at the
moment when the fugitives had safely reached the foot of the wall,
there came a blinding flash of lightning, cleaving its zig-zag way
through the clouds. The flash was followed immediately by a stunning
clap of thunder with that peculiar crackling sound which tells that
the lightning has struck something close by, and then another noise
was heard--it was that of a mighty cocoa nut palm which split from
top to bottom, came crashing to the ground.

