The two Javanese then left the shelter of the wall where they knew that
the rounds might at any moment discover them; and, taking advantage
of the dense darkness which followed upon the dazzling flash, they
darted across the small plain in which the prison stood, and, in a
few moments, had reached the edge of the dessa.

Once there, they were perfectly safe, for not one of the inhabitants of
the dessa would have thought of betraying the victims of the detested
opium tyranny to the vengeance of the white man.

When Resident van Gulpendam was informed of this escape, he was
simply furious.

One of the sentries stated that, after the fall of the palm-tree,
he had heard a sound as of something splashing in the water; but
the darkness made it impossible for him to distinguish what it was,
and he thought it must be some dog who was trying to get away from so
dangerous a neighbourhood. The Resident at once ordered the man to
be tried by court-martial, and had him punished with fourteen days'
close imprisonment.

The most careful search was made to discover the fugitives. All the
detectives, all the spies, all the creatures of the opium police, were
turned out, and used their utmost skill; but all to no purpose. For
months the entire district of Banjoe Pahit, especially the dessa
Kaligaweh, was carefully watched; the wife and children of Pak Ardjan
were not lost sight of for a moment; but without result. At length
the police were driven to the conclusion that the criminals could
not have returned to Kaligaweh and that they must, in fact, have left
the residence of Santjoemeh altogether. Presently men ceased to talk
about the matter, and soon the whole business was clean forgotten;
when--a couple of months later--an event took place which, while it
recalled the occurrence to men's minds, gave them at the same time
ample food for reflection.



On a certain evening Singomengolo had come to Lim Yang Bing and had
told him that he thought he had found a trace of the fugitives; but,
as he feared some of the information he had gained might leak out,
he refused to give any further explanation. He requested, however,
that he might, for that evening, have the assistance of two of Lim Yang
Bing's men; and he picked out two Chinese bandoelans to accompany him
on his voyage of discovery. The opium farmer tried all he knew to get
at Singomengolo's secret. He questioned and cross-questioned him; but
he could get nothing out of him. The bandoelan persisted in saying that
he could hope for success only by keeping strictly secret the clue he
had obtained. He further said that he was not at all certain that the
information he had gained was genuine; and that he might very possibly
be on a wrong scent altogether. The only thing he allowed to slip out
was that the field of his operations lay not far from Kaligaweh. As
soon as he had obtained the help he required, Singomengolo started
off with his two police-spies; but he did not return. When on the
following morning, the opium farmer heard that his trusty servant had
not yet come home, he began to grow anxious. He was so used to see
his bandoelan at a stated hour in the morning, to receive from him
a report of all that had occurred during the twenty-four hours, and
to give him his further orders, that the man's want of punctuality on
this occasion gave him no little alarm. On that morning especially, he
had been impatiently awaiting Singo's usual visit, as he was extremely
curious to know what success had followed the night's expedition. He
waited and waited with still growing impatience until noon. Then,
the suspense becoming intolerable, he called for his carriage, and
drove straight off to the Residence.

