"What is the matter now, babah?" cried van Gulpendam, greatly surprised
at the manner of his visitor, who seemed to have lost all the calmness
and composure which are so very characteristic of his nation.

"Kandjeng toean," hurriedly said Lim Yang Bing, "I come to invoke
your aid!"

Thereupon he told the Resident what little he knew of Singomengolo's
expedition, and could not hide the anxiety which the bandoelan's
prolonged absence caused him.

For a few moments the Resident sat reflecting on what he had heard. He
had received, from one of the landowners at Banjoe Pahit, secret
information which was of a very disquieting nature. A hint had been
conveyed to him from that source, that very probably Banjoe Pahit would
be threatened by a visit from certain bands of robbers. The hint was,
however, so very vague and had apparently so little to support it,
that he had not paid much attention to it. The new controller, whom he
had appointed in the place of Verstork, and to whom he had imparted
the information he had received, assured him that the district was
profoundly quiet, that the population was as orderly and contented as
it could possibly be; and that not a single alarming symptom could be
discovered. True it was that the land-tax came in somewhat slowly; but,
on the other hand, other sources of revenue were decidedly improving,
and, judging from the flourishing state of the opium den at Kaligaweh,
the bidding at the approaching sale of the monopoly would run unusually
high. This report was eminently satisfactory to the Resident, and
though he knew perfectly well that the foundation upon which the
controller had built his pleasant expectations, was an extremely
crazy one; for in such matters it was not an easy thing to deceive
the keenly practised eye of van Gulpendam, yet he was quite ready
to accept it as sufficient, because he reckoned upon the report as
a convenient screen under which to hide himself should matters turn
out not quite so satisfactory as his subordinate would make them
appear. He had, therefore, written to the landowner a most polite
letter in which he thanked him for his information; but in which he
at the same time told him that he had reason to think his fears were
unfounded, adding that for the future, it might perhaps be advisable
not to spread such alarming reports. Strange that, as Lim Yang Bing
was telling his tale, these vague rumours of possible disturbance had
come up spontaneously to the mind of the Resident, yet so it was. Very
probably van Gulpendam could not have explained the fact to himself.

