Why should the rather late return of Singomengolo--for, as yet,
there was no ground for giving his absence any other name--why should
that have any connection with those faint rumours of robber bands
which had not shown the slightest symptom of having any substantial
foundation? No, no, that was out of the question. Van Gulpendam
accordingly tried to calm the Chinaman's fears.

"But, babah," said he, "surely you have no reason for all this
uneasiness. It must, I should think, be no uncommon occurrence for
a bandoelan to be delayed for some time on a secret mission--"

"No, kandjeng toean," was the reply, "not Singomengolo. He always
takes his measures so carefully and lays down his plans so accurately,
that he never fails to be with me at the appointed time."

"Well, babah," asked the Resident, "in what manner can I assist you?"

"All I want," replied Lim Yang Bing, "is for you to give me a few
oppassers and your written authority to call upon the dessa people
to lend the police any assistance they may require."

"But," persisted van Gulpendam, "what do you want the oppassers and
the dessa people to do?"

"I wish," said the Chinaman, "thoroughly to search Kaligaweh. I
don't know how to explain it, kandjeng toean; but I have a kind of
presentiment that Singomengolo has fallen into some trap and has met
with foul play."

"Very good," said van Gulpendam, "so be it, I have no objection."

A few hours later, a numerous band of men was searching Kaligaweh
in every direction; but no discovery was made that could throw any
light upon the matter. The dessa people were preparing to go home,
and the policemen were getting ready to return to Santjoemeh, when
a fisherman came up and told them that at Kali Tjatjing he had seen
something which looked like three dead bodies. Thereupon the search
was at once resumed, and, under the fisherman's guidance, the police
proceeded to the spot he had mentioned. At length under a thickly
tangled clump of mangrove, quite close to the river bank, they found
the bodies of Singomengolo and of one of his Chinese followers. Both
bodies were covered with wounds; and so fearfully hacked about with
the kris, that death must have been almost instantaneous. The third
Chinaman still showed some signs of life when they found him. He
had a dreadful gash in the throat; but if it had been attended to at
once he might possibly have survived. Loss of blood, however, had now
made his recovery hopeless. When the party of searchers reached him
he opened his eyes feebly, and muttered some disconnected words. He
tried to say something about men with blackened faces, and some of
those present thought they could distinguish the name of Ardjan,
then, uttering a deep sigh, the man expired.

