






CHAPTER XXVIII.

CORRESPONDENCE.


The departure of Verstork for Atjeh, seemed to have drawn more closely
together the little band of friends which, after the boar-hunt in the
Djoerang Pringapoes, we saw so cosily seated around the hospitable
board at Banjoe Pahit. The loss of one of their number had strengthened
rather than weakened their mutual feelings of friendship. We said
the loss of one of their friends; but in this case that is hardly
the correct word to use; for, though William Verstork was far away,
yet he continued to dwell in the memory of them all, and he was
perpetually the subject of their conversation. It was, however, not
only that affectionate remembrance which held the friends so closely
united. Letters were continually passing between them, and Verstork was
kept well informed by his friends at Santjoemeh of all that concerned
themselves privately, and also of the events which form the subject
of our story, and in which they all played a more or less prominent
part. Edward van Rheijn had, under the influence of van Gulpendam,
for a time grown somewhat cool towards his friends; but when he began
to gain a deeper insight into the real character of the Resident,
and began to see with what cynical selfishness he turned everything
to his own advantage, his feelings towards his friends became as warm
as ever they had been before. He wrote a long letter to Verstork
about his successor at Banjoe Pahit, in which he showed him how
mischievous and destructive was that man's influence in the formerly
thriving district. Everything, he said, was rapidly going to ruin, the
rice-culture was being woefully neglected, and the second crops shared
the same fate. Breach of contract was now an almost daily occurrence,
inasmuch as the once so orderly and industrious population, was fast
getting lazy, listless, in fact utterly unfit for any regular work
whatever. In one word, the entire district was visibly deteriorating,
and could look forward to nothing but a future of crime and misery. On
the other hand, the opium den, the gambling hells and the pawn shop,
were in a most flourishing condition, and produced large incomes to the
farmers of those sources of revenue to the Dutch treasury. In order to
satisfy the inordinate passion for gambling and for opium, smuggling
was rapidly on the increase, and theft was of daily occurrence; nay,
there were even ugly whispers of robber bands, which were said to have
been organised, and to have already begun their criminal operations.

