Van Rheijn concluded his letter with these words: "The bandoelan
Singomengolo--You remember the scoundrel who was present at the
dreadful Amokh scene at Kaligaweh, and who afterwards arrested baboe
Dalima--has been found murdered close to Moeara Tjatjing, and two of
his Chinese followers have shared his fate. I have every reason to
believe that this crime had nothing to do with robbers; my opinion is
that it was a pure case of revenge; for on the bandoelan's body there
was found the sum of sixty-eight guilders, and this plainly enough
shows that robbery could not have been the motive of the murder. There
is another very remarkable circumstance in this case, and it is this:
Besides the money, I told you of--there were found on him five small
copper boxes, which are precisely like the two little boxes you took
possession of at Kaligaweh, and in the Djoerang Pringapoes. Indeed,
I must tell you that I am now beginning to see what a fearful curse
the opium trade is to the country. I make that confession the more
freely to you, as you recollect, no doubt, that some little time ago
I had not made up my mind on the question. Such, in the few months of
your absence, has become the condition of Banjoe Pahit; and--to fill
up the cup of misery--a rumour is now current that the land-tax is to
be raised, and that the other already existing taxes are to be exacted
with much greater severity; while, at the same time, fresh burdens
will be heaped upon the shoulders of the natives. In one word, money
grabbing in every possible shape and form, in the form of compulsory
labour, in the form of duty on salt, in the form of import and export
duties, in the form of opium dens, of gambling booths, in the shape
of pawn shops,--everywhere extortion, the most wrung out of the poor
wretched Javanese. William! William! where must all this end? I can
foresee nothing but calamity--there must come a crash. It may come
sooner or, it may be, later; but come it must. For the condition of
Banjoe Pahit is by no means exceptional. It may much rather be looked
upon as typical of the state of the entire island of Java."

