August van Beneden wrote to his friend to tell him all that had
occurred with regard to the impending trials of the Javanese
Setrosmito, and of his daughter baboe Dalima. He wrote as follows:

"Just fancy, William! The Government have thrown all kinds of obstacles
in the way of my appearing as defending counsel in these two cases. You
will hardly guess what reasons are given for this opposition. The
objection is, that perhaps I might have to be called as a witness in
both cases. It was a rather clever dodge; but, as you may suppose, I
stuck to my point. The whole question has been submitted to the Judge
Commissary of the court of Santjoemeh; and, when I had declared that
I had witnessed nothing, and that therefore my testimony could not
be called for, after I had formally stated that I had no pecuniary
interest whatever in the matter, and had consented unconditionally
to abide by his decision, the Judge withdrew his opposition, and
permitted me to plead in both cases. But he further said that,
should I be unexpectedly called as a witness, he could not allow me
to be sworn.--And now, William, pray attend to the reason which he
gave for that decision. He could not allow me to be sworn because,
although I am undertaking this defence gratuitously and do not expect
to receive any fee; yet, as defending counsel, I must be looked upon
as having an indirect interest in the acquittal of my clients, and
am not, therefore, in the eyes of the law, a perfectly independent
and unbiassed witness! Now what do you think of that? I freely admit
speaking as a man and as a lawyer that the decision is correct,
quite correct; but, what if that principle were to be applied to all
witnesses that appear in court? Would not the testimony of all the
bandoelans, the opium-hunters, the opium-den keepers, 'et hoc genus
omne,' much rather lie open to suspicion? It is an admitted fact that
all these men speak under the direct dictation of the opium farmer, and
that, moreover, owing to the rewards which the law allows them, they
have a most direct and material interest in procuring convictions. Oh,
William! our entire legal system--and especially our treatment of
the natives in opium cases--is most lamentably deficient.

