"The charges against Setrosmito and baboe Dalima will be brought
before the native court, and it is but very seldom that counsel are
heard there. It is my intention, therefore, to appear as counsel only
in the case of Setrosmito. With regard to Dalima, should she be found
guilty, she will have an appeal to the Superior Court at Santjoemeh,
and then I shall have to conduct her defence with as much vigour as
possible. You may ask perhaps why make that distinction between the
two cases? Listen to me, and bear in mind that I am acting under van
Nerekool's advice.

"You have probably heard that Singomengolo, who in both trials was to
have been the principal witness, has been mysteriously murdered. At
first I thought that his removal was all in favour of my clients;
but I have since ascertained that the chief bandoelan has left behind
him a sworn deposition of all the facts, and that it will be received
as evidence by the court. Thus his death is a positive and serious
injury to our cause, inasmuch as we cannot now confront him with Lim
Ho, and with the defendants. I fully expected to have been able to
lead them into a long and angry discussion, in the course of which,
I have no doubt, that several facts would have come to light, which
would have enabled me to prove that the father committed the crime
of which he stands accused, under the most extenuating circumstances;
and clearly to bring out the absolute innocence of the daughter, and
the brutal violence to which she has been subjected. Now, however,
we are in a very different position. At the preliminary inquiry
before the Judge Commissary, Mrs. van Gulpendam has stated that she
was quite unaware of Dalima's absence from the house on the night in
question; and thus the girl now lies under very serious suspicion of
having left the grounds of the Residence for an improper purpose. You
remember, of course, that on the morning of our boar-hunt she appealed
to the fact of her having received leave of absence both from the
njonja and from nonna Anna. Whereupon you asked her whether these
ladies would bear witness to that fact. You recollect also that
she at once replied in the affirmative. But you will ask perhaps:
'How about Miss van Gulpendam?' Well, William, that is another very
mysterious business! The common report is that the Resident's daughter
has gone to Karang Anjer on a visit to the Steenvlaks. But, no sooner
had the inquiry about Dalima begun, than the Resident said that his
daughter had gone to Europe, and that she intended to stay for a while
with an aunt of hers who lives in Switzerland. But the most curious
circumstance is that in the lists of passengers of all the ships which
have, within the last few months, sailed for Europe, the name of Miss
Anna van Gulpendam can nowhere be found. You know how inquisitive
are our gossips at Santjoemeh--Well, the public--that public which
sees everything, hears everything, and pries into everything--has
made every possible endeavour to find out what may have become of
Miss van Gulpendam; but without the slightest success. The Resident
has been pressed on the point by many an indiscreet busy-body,
and he treats the whole thing in a very light and airy way. He has
concocted some tale to the effect that his daughter, in company with
two English ladies, left by a boat from Tjilatjap, that she started
for Port Adelaide, and from thence intends to take the mail-boat to
England. Not a soul, of course, believes a word of the yarn, which is
all the more apocryphal from the fact that the father has never yet
been induced to mention the name of the ship in which the young lady
is said to have sailed. Some anxious souls amongst us have actually
gone the length of telegraphing to Acraman, Main, and Co. of Adelaide,
and the answer they received was:--'We know nothing of the arrival
of three ladies from the Dutch Indies.'--Van Nerekool is frantic,
that you may well suppose. A few days ago he was talking about going
to Karang Anjer to inquire after his lady-love, for whom he has still
the deepest and warmest affection. He has been there and has returned
as wise as he was before. He will, I have no doubt, write to you
and tell you, poor fellow, all about his adventures. I rather fancy,
indeed, that he has done so already. The sum total of all this is,
my dear William, that my clients' affairs are in a very bad state;
but I do not despair. I shall do my very utmost to save the poor
creatures. To spur me on to further exertions, I have the fact that
poor Dalima is, as the saying is, in an interesting condition; so that
the consequences of Lim Ho's detestable misdeed are already showing
themselves. Will this circumstance be of any use to me at the trial? I
doubt it much. We have no legal proof of the outrage and, therefore,
I think it will be best for all concerned to hush the matter up as much
as possible. All right-minded men, however, are moved with the deepest
sympathy for the poor girl; and should she be discharged, or after
she has left the prison, will be ready to protect her. She will need
all the support she can get; for, after her father's condemnation,
she will be homeless, and, disgraced as she is by van Gulpendam's
assertions, she will not be able to get a place anywhere either as
baboe or in any other capacity. However, time brings counsel!"

