It was a letter from Grenits which brought Verstork news of the
double escape of Ardjan and his father from the jail at Santjoemeh,
and told him of the consternation which that event had spread in
official circles. The young merchant wrote to his friend, and said:

"The Resident tries to appear perfectly indifferent to the escape of
the prisoners, and whenever it is talked about treats the matter with
much unconcern. But it has been remarked with what feverish anxiety the
fugitives have been pursued. I can assure you that, when the regular
police were at fault, the whole army of opium-spies was pressed into
the service. But since Singomengolo and two of his Chinamen were
found murdered--and murdered too without having been robbed--the
very gravest anxiety has been felt; and a report was current that
the guard at the Residence had been doubled. There is not a word of
truth, however, in that rumour, and I can positively deny it. The two
sentries, as usual, march up and down before the door of the high
and mighty one; but the officer who commands that honourable corps
of civilian soldiers has assured me that the cartridge box in the
guardroom at the Residence has not even been unlocked. A good job
too; for if those heroes should begin to fire ball-cartridge, loyal
and peaceful citizens will be in considerably greater peril than the
offenders. But, for all that, I am heartily glad that the fellows
have got clear away. Their escape may not be legally justifiable;
but a most grievous piece of injustice has thus been partially
rectified. The father was driven to his reckless deed by the brutal
conduct of the police towards his children, while the son had no hand
whatever in the opium smuggling with which he was charged. You know
that perfectly well, and the public knows it as well as you do. My
own little affair with Mokesuep will now very shortly come before the
high court of justice. The case is an extremely simple one. I have
admitted that I did give the fellow two good slaps in the face, and
my confession has been confirmed by the evidence of the man himself,
and by that of Lim Ho and of Grashuis. Acting on van Beneden's advice,
I have not pleaded any extenuating circumstances; because we do not
wish to bring up poor little Dalima's name. The doctor has given a
formal certificate to the effect that no outrage has been committed,
and thus there is no possibility of legally proving the offence. And
yet we are all of us morally convinced that a gross outrage was
perpetrated, but--when shall we see justice dealt out fairly in India?"

