It was, however, van Nerekool's letter which made the deepest
impression on Verstork, though he had read the other communications
with very great interest. The young judge told his friend all about
Anna van Gulpendam's sudden disappearance and what had taken place
since she left. He said:

"I have done all I could possibly do to meet her again; but to no
purpose. Not only have her parents taken every precaution to make
a meeting impossible; but Anna herself was determined not to see
me again when I had at length persuaded Mrs. Meidema to let me know
when I might expect to find Anna at her house. Now she is gone--and I
received a letter from Sapoeran; but, my dear friend, it is a letter
which robs me of all hope. She writes: 'My union with you is utterly
impossible, you cannot, you must not think of making me your wife
after the infamous proposals which have been made to you. You will say,
perhaps, that a child is not guilty of the actions of her parents and
cannot be held responsible for them. In that you are perfectly right,
and I must tell you that my conscience is as clear; and that, if in
my present forlorn condition I may be allowed so to speak, I, at this
present moment hold up my head as high as before I knew anything of
my mother's designs. But to be always face to face with the man to
whom the odious propositions were made, to be ever conscious, even in
our tenderest moments, of the fact that I was flung to the man I love
as the price of dishonour, that is a prospect which is to me utterly
unendurable. You are a gentleman, and as such, you would no doubt
always have treated my parents with deference and with the proper show
of respect; but to know that all this must be a mere empty show, put
on in deference to a daughter's natural affections,--Oh Charles! that
would have made life an intolerable burden to me, and must in the
end, have destroyed your happiness also.' William, my dear friend,
these lines sounded to me so full of despair, while at the same
time they are so full of love, that they made me the happiest and,
at the same time, the most wretched of men. I can fully enter into
her feelings--I can understand her deep disgust at the actions of
her parents; and it is for that very reason that I now, if possible,
love her still more ardently than before. Her noble character stands
clearly revealed in every word of her letter and commands my respect
and admiration. I often ask myself how can such a child have sprung
from such parents? It must be by a freak of nature that two such
depraved creatures could have begotten so noble a child. How is it
possible that amid such surroundings Anna has remained spotless and
pure? To us who hold the cynical opinion that with our mother's milk
we imbibe our mother's faults, it is an insoluble enigma. But, you
see William, all this only serves to increase my affection for the
lovely girl who happens to have crossed my path of life. What will be
the end of it all? That is a question I often seriously put to myself;
but I can find no answer to it. There are moments when I recoil from
my very self; for I am beginning to discover within me certain feelings
which I hardly dare to analyse. Are these feelings to be accounted for
by the obstacles which my love to Anna has encountered? Would they
ever have arisen in my breast if the course of my love, like that
of so many of my fellow-men, had run smoothly along? I cannot tell;
for the ideal which once I formed of married life is so strangely
different from the storm which now rages within me, that I sometimes
cannot repress a painful smile when I call to mind my visions of days
gone by. Then woman was to me an ethereal being rather than a companion
of flesh and blood who can herself feel the passion she inspires. You
know, my dear friend, how little, hitherto, I have been accessible
to what is called love. Well, now I am a different man. At times I
feel as if a burning fire were consuming me. There are moments when
painful yearnings arise within me for that pure and lovely being,
for that proud maiden, whose very chastity and purity attract me with
irresistible power. She flies from my love--and, oh William! I confess
it to you though I confess it with shame--that there are moments in
which I not only long to make her mine, but in which I madly swear
that at any price she shall be mine. And then--alas that I should
have to say so--in this storm of passion there is nothing tender,
nothing sentimental; but it is simple passion which masters me, the
mere selfish and senseless raging of the grossly material man, who
is prepared to fling himself, by force if need be, upon the object
which he has determined to obtain.

