"After the receipt of that last letter I have repeatedly written to
Anna. Again and again I have told her of my love. I have conjured her
not to trample upon my affection. I have begged, I have entreated,
I have prayed her not to refuse me her hand. Her parents would surely
not persist in rejecting me; my worldly prospects might improve;
indeed, I let her know that, as far as mere money was concerned,
she need have no anxiety whatever; for that one of my mother's
sisters had left me, not indeed any very considerable sum, but yet a
competence. I told her that I must succeed in getting an appointment
far away from the abode of her parents, and that, if life in India was
really unbearable to her, we could cross the sea and go to Australia;
that we might there marry and live quietly and forgotten by all,
yet happy in our mutual affection. All this I wrote, and a great
deal more; but, my dear friend, I received not a single word in
reply. Regularly my letters have been returned to me and always
unopened. Then I began to see that her determination was not to be
shaken. With her own hand she enclosed my letters in an envelope and
with her own hand firmly and boldly wrote the address. There could
be no mistake about it; it was indeed her own handwriting. What was
I to do? What could I do? I was in the most excited frame of mind;
yet the huge mass of arrears with which the courts at Santjoemeh are
overloaded would not allow me to ask for even a single day's leave of
absence. I felt that I must get away--that I must fly to Karang Anjer;
for I was persuaded that even yet I might induce Anna to look with
less coldness upon my love. At length my last letter was returned
to me unopened as all the others had been. As I held it in my hand
a strange feeling of dread seemed to come over me for--the address
was not in Anna's handwriting. Hastily I tore open the cover. Yes,
there was my letter, unopened, and upon it were written these few
hurried words: 'Anna van Gulpendam has left Karang Anjer!' You may
perhaps be able, William, to understand my feelings as I read the
words 'Anna has left Karang Anjer!' and not another syllable to give
me a clue as to where my darling then was. Who could have written
those few words--it was certainly not Anna's hand, that I could see
at a glance. But who could it be? Was it a woman's hand at all? The
writing was regular, the letters were fairly formed; but they told me
nothing. One thing I felt quite distinctly, namely that, at any cost,
I must get to Karang Anjer or else anxiety and suspense would kill
me. The only question was, how to get away. You know that my superior
officer in the High Court of Justice is a friend of van Gulpendam,
and thus I knew I could not venture to ask him for leave of absence,
I am glad I did not, for had I done so, I feel convinced that every
one of my steps would have been watched. Happily, however, help came
from an unexpected quarter. I became seriously indisposed. Congestion
and feverish attacks made me wholly unfit for work, and though I was
not forced to take to my bed, yet the doctor was so uneasy about the
state of my health, that he insisted upon my starting at once for the
hills; for, he declared, immediate change of climate was the only
remedy for my complaint. You may imagine my feelings of joy when I
heard this. I said, however, as quietly as I could, 'Well, doctor,
is there any particular spot to which you advise me to go?'

