"'I fancy,' he replied, 'Salatiga will be about the best place;
it lies pretty high up, 1800 feet I think.'

"'Would not Wonosobo do just as well?' I asked, with assumed
indifference.

"'Have you any preference for that place?' he asked.

"'Oh no,' I replied, 'not exactly a preference; but the Assistant
Resident there is a friend of mine and I know several of the landowners
in the neighbourhood. At Salatiga I shall be quite a stranger and
must feel very lonely.'

"'Well then by all means,' said the doctor, 'go to Wonosobo. In fact
it lies up higher still, quite 2200 feet, that will be still better
for you.'

"The necessary certificate was soon signed, and in two days I
was seated in a travelling carriage and was off on my way to the
hills. Wonosobo, as you probably know, is 73 miles from Karang Anjer;
but what were they in my eyes? Was it the hope which began to dawn
within me, or had a reaction already set in? I cannot tell; but this
much I know, that from the very commencement of my journey, I felt as
if fresh life had been infused into me. In any other frame of mind the
trip would have been highly interesting; for the country through which
I passed was enchantingly lovely. I traversed the mountain district
of Prahoe which is quite 8000 feet above the sea-level; then I went
through the Dieng plateau, that classical volcanic region which the
German naturalist Franz Junghuhn has so graphically described. My road
then took me along Goenoeng Panggonang and Goenoeng Pakoeodja with
their still active solfataras and their springs of boiling water;
along the Telerep, that shattered old volcano whose very appearance
testifies of eruptions and convulsions which defy description; along
the Telogo Mendjer, the deep crater-lake inbedded in walls of rock and
offering one of the loveliest basins in the whole world. Then further
along the western slopes of the Goenoeng Lindoro, the fairest and most
symmetrical volcano in Java which rises to a perpendicular height of
fully 10,000 feet above the sea-level; and thus, at length, I arrived
at Wonosobo. But for all this I had no eyes. I passed unmoved by all
these marvellous beauties of nature, which in the shape of pyramids,
of jagged mountain-ridges, of steep and towering rocks, of dashing
mountain torrents, of thundering cataracts, of magnificent lakes,
of green table-lands, of picturesque valleys, of dizzy ravines, of
deep, dark precipices, of hoary forests, of delightful coffee and
tea plantations, moved before me like some wondrous and ever varied
panorama. One only thought possessed me: Anna! and I had but one
object in view, namely, to hurry on as quickly as possible and to
get to the end of my journey.

