"'Come coachman, drive on, drive on!' was my only cry to the Automedon
who certainly did his best and plied his long whip with merciless
dexterity.

"But when I arrived at Wonosobo my impatience was far from being
satisfied.

"The kindest reception awaited me, and the Assistant Resident had
prepared for my entertainment on the most liberal scale. You know
the family Kleinsma, so I need enter into no details. The journey
had the most beneficial effect upon my health; but yet I had to
allow several days to pass before I could safely venture on a trip
to Karang Anjer. I made use of my stay to tell my host something,
at least, of the state of my affairs. I explained to him that I was
most anxious to avoid observation and to keep away from Poerworedjo
the capital of that district.

"'Indeed,' said Kleinsma, 'you will find that no easy matter. In that
case you will have to go by way of Kaliwiro, Ngalian, Peniron and so
to Karang Anjer.'

"'Will that take me far out of my way?' I asked, thinking that he
was alluding to the length of the journey.

"'Not at all,' was his reply. 'On the contrary you will by that road
cut off about one third of the distance; but you cannot travel in
a carriage. Our roads about here are very good; but in the interior
you can travel only on horseback. You will moreover have to take a
guide; for the roads cross one another and form so intricate a web,
that it forms a very labyrinth and, even the most accurate map would
hardly save you from losing your way altogether.'

"That prospect however could not deter me. I passed eight days in that
beautiful climate, and then, when all feverish symptoms had left me,
I undertook the journey which was, in truth, a rather perilous one. The
horse which Kleinsma had procured me was a stout Javanese mountain
nag, and, in spite of the difficult nature of the ground, he always
managed to get along at the rate of about six miles an hour. When
the road lay up the mountain, the good beast would take to galloping
without my having to use whip or spur. When the path ran downhill,
if the descent was not too steep, he would keep up a decent trot or
a good fast walk. At Ngalian I changed horses and obtained a still
better mount than my former one. Thus I got over the Besser mountains,
over the spurs of the Midangang and of the Paras and Boetak hills,
and, at four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached Karang Anjer.

