"Alas! William, all this trouble proved in vain. I could gain no
information about my dear Anna. I intend to let you know all about
my disappointment on a future occasion; for the present, I have not
the courage to go on."








CHAPTER XXIX.

AT KARANG ANJER. AN ACQUITTAL.


Yes, it was true enough, all poor van Nerekool's trouble had been
absolutely in vain.

When he got to Karang Anjer he found in Mrs. Steenvlak a most amiable
and highly accomplished lady, who, in her husband's absence, received
him most kindly and hospitably; but who, as regards Anna van Gulpendam,
refused to give him the slightest information.

The young lawyer did his very best--he questioned and cross-questioned
his hostess; but he had to do with a shrewd and clever woman who was
quite able to hold her own, and would give him no direct answers. Most
amiable Mrs. Steenvlak was no doubt; but he could get no information
out of her; and all her replies to his oft-repeated questions left our
despairing lover in the greatest perplexity. He begged and entreated,
and she listened to him with the most unwearying patience, she showed
even the deepest sympathy for his distress; but nevertheless nothing
could move her to divulge anything.

"Yes," said she, "Anna has been staying with us for the last few weeks,
and I am happy to say, Mr. van Nerekool, that I succeeded in becoming
her friend, and in obtaining her confidence. I will tell you further,
that in her despair, the poor girl has told me everything--you
understand me, do you not, when I say everything? She has told me
of your mutual affection, and she has also shown me the barrier,
the insurmountable barrier, which must for ever keep you apart."

"Madam!" cried van Nerekool in dismay at her words.

"And," continued Mrs. Steenvlak, "I am bound to tell you that I think
the dear girl is right in every word she says. Of a marriage between
you and her there cannot possibly be any further question; not even if
you could succeed in winning the full consent of her parents. Utter
misery for both of you would be the inevitable result of so foolish
a step. Anna is, in my opinion, quite right when she maintains that
a woman must have an unsullied name for her dowry."

