"But, madam!" passionately cried van Nerekool, "Anna is blameless
and pure!"

"I am speaking of her name, Mr. van Nerekool, not of her person. A man
must be able to pronounce his wife's name without having to blush as
he mentions it. Her parents must possess his esteem, and they must be
worthy of his respect. If those conditions do not exist then, for both
man and wife, existence must soon become intolerable. It must become so
to him; for he will always have to be carefully on his guard, weighing
every word he speaks or leaves unspoken; and this restraint soon must
banish all real confidence between them. Every heedless expression,
on the other hand, would inevitably inflict a wound upon her, and,
in the most innocent utterances, she needs must see some hidden
meaning. In fact, under such circumstances, no compromise is possible."

"But, Mrs. Steenvlak," insisted van Nerekool, "I have proposed
to Anna that we should leave Java altogether and go to Australia,
to Singapore, or to any other place she might prefer. There no one
would know the name of van Gulpendam, and we might live only for
one another--and--and, I believe that our love would enable us to
forget the dreary past, and thus a compromise might very easily be
possible. As far as I am concerned no single word would ever drop
from my lips which would allude to the past--I know how deeply any
such hint must wound her, and, believe me, I love her far too dearly
to inflict upon her the slightest pain."

"Oh yes, Mr. van Nerekool, of that I have no doubt whatever; but, you
see, that very silence, that very reticence on your part would be most
painful to her; and it would ultimately become too great a restraint
upon you also--you could not possibly bear it. But, for the matter
of that, I must tell you that, with respect to your letters to her,
she has never told me a single word."

"How could she do so?" asked van Nerekool, "all my letters have been
returned to me unopened."

"I am glad of it," replied Mrs. Steenvlak, "there again Anna has acted
most wisely; and in acting thus she has spared herself, and you too,
much useless sorrow. Every communication from you, every effort on
your part to remove the existing obstacles between you, could only
be most painful, and could not possibly lead to any good result."

