"Madam!" cried van Nerekool.

"You said, for instance, just now, that you have proposed to Anna
to go to Singapore, and to be married there. But, just consider, how
could you have undertaken that journey? Separately? I do not suppose
that you could intend so young a girl to undertake such a journey
alone. Together? You feel at once how such a proposition would have
wounded her modesty and her feelings. No, I am glad indeed that she
had the courage not to read your letters."

"But, Mrs. Steenvlak," said van Nerekool, adopting another tone,
"supposing that I were prepared to accept the present circumstances
as they are?"

"What can you mean?" asked Mrs. Steenvlak in some surprise.

"Supposing," continued he, "that in spite of her parents, in spite
of all that has occurred, I should be prepared to make her my wife?"

"Mr. van Nerekool," replied Mrs. Steenvlak very seriously, "do not
speak so wildly I pray. In spite of her parents! That must mean that
you are prepared to accept all the consequences such a step would
entail. In other words, that you are prepared to show her parents that
respect and that esteem which they could justly claim from you as their
son-in-law. But do you not see that by thus acting you would be making
yourself contemptible in Anna's eyes?--you would be taking away the
last support the girl still has to cling to in her exile. Believe me,
the cruellest blow you can strike a woman of her nature, is to prove
to her that she placed her affections on one unworthy of her. The
unsullied image of him whom once she loved--whom she perhaps still
fondly loves--gives her, in spite of the obstacles which separate
you from one another, the best consolation in her sorrow. And that
pure remembrance will be to her, together with the consciousness of
having acted strictly in accordance with her duty, her chief support
in a lonely life."

As Mrs. Steenvlak was speaking, Charles van Nerekool had covered his
face with his hands. At her last words however he sprang up from his
chair, he took her hand and said:

