"A lonely life you say? Oh, do tell me where Anna now is. I will go
to her, perhaps even yet I may succeed in winning her--tell me where
to find her!"

"Mr. van Nerekool," rejoined Mrs. Steenvlak, very quietly, "do not,
I pray you, try to do any such thing. She has given me her fullest
confidence, and I do not intend to betray it. She has told me every
detail, she has consulted me about the line of conduct she ought to
adopt; and in all she does she has my sanction. Do you think that I
would throw fresh difficulties in her way? You surely cannot wish me
to do so."

"But," cried van Nerekool passionately, "what does she intend to
do--what kind of plans has she formed?"

"She simply intends henceforth to live forgotten."

"Perhaps to mar--!" cried he.

"My dear sir," hastily interrupted Mrs. Steenvlak, "do not pronounce
that word, I forbid you to do so. In your mouth such a word conveys a
foul calumny. She has refused your hand--she will never marry another."

"But what then does she intend to do?"

"I have told you," replied Mrs. Steenvlak, "she intends to live in
perfect solitude and oblivion; and thus she wishes quietly to await
death, which, she hopes, will soon release her from all her troubles."

"She is ill then?" cried he in dismay.

"No, she is not ill," replied Mrs. Steenvlak; "but such a trial as
she has gone through is not at all unlikely to impair a young girl's
health; and may very probably shorten her life."

"Madam," cried van Nerekool, "your words are torture!"

"I am telling you the simple truth."

"Oh tell me--where is she?"

"Never," was the quiet reply.

"Is she in Java? Is she in India?"

"I will not give you the slightest clue."

"Has she gone to Europe? Oh, I beg and pray you, have pity upon me
and deliver me from this fearful suspense?"

"I will tell you nothing at all. Do you understand me, Mr. van
Nerekool? nothing at all."

"Can I not in any way move you to pity?"

"No, Mr. van Nerekool, I intend to remain true to my word and,
moreover--"

