"But, madam," interrupted van Nerekool vehemently, "you must take
pity upon my wretchedness!"

"Moreover," continued Mrs. Steenvlak calmly, "I feel certain that in
acting as I am doing, and in keeping absolute silence, I am preventing
much future misery."

"You are hard, you are pitiless!" cried the young man in despair,
as he rushed from the house. For a couple of days longer he stayed at
Karang Anjer, at the house of the regent of that dessa who entertained
him with the utmost hospitality.

He cross-examined his host. "Yes--he knew nonna Anna well. She had
frequently, in company with the njonja, called upon his wife; but
she had gone away without letting anyone know where she intended to
go to. His wife and he thought that she had gone back to Santjoemeh."

The unhappy lover kept wandering about the neighbourhood, making
inquiries everywhere. He tried to obtain some clue from the
loerahs, from the overseer, from the postmasters round about; but
nowhere--nowhere--could he obtain the slightest information. Either
these people really knew nothing, or else they were obeying orders
and would tell him nothing. This seemed to van Nerekool most likely,
as he heard at a certain posting station that no one could tell where
the young lady had gone. During his wanderings he sat down at many
a guard house, and again and again he put the same question: "Could
anyone tell him where to look for the young European lady?" But it
was only to receive the same answer over and over again, "No, sir."

In his distress and perplexity, he at length left Karang Anjer and
went to Tjilatjap, for he wanted to find out whether there was any
truth in the report which van Gulpendam had so assiduously circulated,
namely that his daughter had gone to Europe. Very luckily for him the
regent of Karang Anjer possessed a travelling carriage which he placed
at the disposal of his guest. This was a most fortunate thing for van
Nerekool; for he would otherwise have had to travel the fifty-two
miles to the harbour on horseback, and, in his desponding frame of
mind, the fatigue of so long a journey might have had the most serious
effect upon his health. The road from Karang Anjer to Tjilatjap lies
on one continuous plain which is but very little above the sea-level,
while the hills which rise close to the Indian Ocean run north and
south, thus preventing the free circulation of land and sea breezes
and rendering the atmosphere exceedingly oppressive and stifling.

