"But where on earth can she be then?" cried van Rheijn.

"God only knows!" sighed van Nerekool.

"But her parents?" observed Leendert Grashuis, "we can hardly suppose
that a young lady of her age could have thus disappeared without
consulting her parents."

"No," said van Rheijn, "especially as we know that Resident van
Gulpendam is not exactly the papa to play tricks with."

"Yet," rejoined van Nerekool, "I am of opinion that neither the
Resident nor his wife have the least idea where Anna now is."

Thereupon he told his friends all about his conversation with
Mrs. Steenvlak; and when he had given them a detailed account of
all that passed between him and that lady, he concluded by saying,
"She only could give us the information we want if she would."

"If that be so," remarked van Beneden, "we ought to search in the
neighbourhood of Karang Anjer."

"I have done so," was van Nerekool's reply, "I have most minutely
searched the entire district. I have questioned everybody whom I
considered in the least likely to know anything about her movements;
but all my inquiries have ended in nothing."

"Well, Charles," said Grashuis, "in that case I can see nothing for
it than to leave the solution of the mystery to time."

"To time!" sighed van Nerekool, "I suppose you are right; but, my
dear friends, I am most wretched and most miserable."

"You must get to business and, by hard work, seek to divert your
thoughts," said van Beneden. "I can assure you that your absence has
not diminished the arrears of work at the Court of Justice. At all
events, brooding over your troubles can do no good whatever."

"Well," replied van Nerekool, "to work then. God grant that hard work
may have the effect you anticipate."

"That reminds me," remarked Grenits, "that to-morrow I shall have to
appear in court."

"You? what for?"

"Don't you remember Mokesuep's business?"

"Oh, aye, for the cuffs you administered to that scoundrel!"

"That will mean eight days for you, friend Theodoor," observed van
Beneden, "eight days at least of seclusion. Well, that's not so very
formidable after all."

