August van Beneden was not very far wrong, for the court condemned
Grenits to ten days' imprisonment and to pay a fine of twenty-five
guilders for the assault, which, though it had led to no serious
consequences, was no light offence, inasmuch as it had been committed
on the person of a witness in a case of opium smuggling. The sentence
would probably have been much more severe; but the court made allowance
for the natural feelings of indignation called forth by the shameful
conduct of the opium police towards a defenceless young girl, at which
the plaintiff Mokesuep had been present without interfering to protect
her from insult. No sooner had the sentence been pronounced, than
every hand in a crowded court was stretched out to Theodoor Grenits,
while Mokesuep was shunned like some venomous reptile. The public
did not look upon the punishment in the light of a degradation at
all; and Grenits became the hero of the hour. A few days after this,
baboe Dalima's case came on before the native court at Santjoemeh.

The Javanese girl most emphatically denied that any opium had been
found in her possession, she even swore that she had not been searched
for any such object. She gave a very simple and unvarnished account
of all that had taken place; but the testimony of Mrs. van Gulpendam
and that of Mokesuep contradicted her assertions. The former handed
in a written statement to the effect that she had not given the baboe
leave to spend the night outside the Residence; but had only given her
permission to start on the next morning, and that she had, in fact, set
her a pretty heavy task of needlework to finish before going. Mokesuep
swore that the girl's story was a fabrication from beginning to end,
that she had violently resisted the search for opium and had bitten
Lim Ho's ear as he made an attempt at holding her hands. That, in this
struggle with the bandoelan, her dress had become torn and deranged,
and that she might very probably have received a few scratches,
but that there had been nothing resembling the outrage of which she
accused Lim Ho.

