The medical officer also was examined, and he maintained that there
could have been no such assault as the girl complained of; he spoke
only of some slight abrasions which had occasioned a trifling loss
of blood.

In all this evidence the demoralising influence of the opium farmer
could plainly be seen; but however conscientious might have been the
new president who now occupied Mr. Zuidhoorn's place, the evidence
must have compelled him to dismiss the complaint lodged by Dalima
against Lim Ho.

The court, therefore, proceeded to deal with the charge of opium
smuggling of which the baboe stood accused.

The deposition left by the murdered bandoelan Singomengolo was positive
enough. It stated most distinctly that, hidden in the folds of her
sarong and under the waistband, he had found a box full of opium. That
the box in question had been delivered to Controller Verstork and
had been sealed up by him. That the contents had been examined and
were found to consist of eight matas of opium of coarse and blackish
appearance, and of a sourish smell, and that, therefore, it could
not have been obtained from the opium farmer in a legitimate way.

But, when the little box was produced in court and was shown to Lim Ho,
he hesitated for a while, and at length said that the struggle which
was going on prevented him from actually seeing Singomengolo produce
the box and that, moreover, his ear was very painful, and he was at
the time busy in trying to staunch the blood. He could not, therefore,
declare that he had seen the box at all until Singomengolo handed it
to Verstork. It thus appeared that the man, though a vile scoundrel,
was not wholly devoid of better feelings.

Not so, however, with Mokesuep. When he entered the witness-box,
bound by his oath to utter nothing but the truth, he did not for an
instant scruple to say that he had actually seen Singomengolo discover
the box hidden in the girl's clothing; and in giving his evidence he
entered so minutely into detail and gave so graphic a description of
the poor girl's struggles, that he fairly disgusted all present. Very
ominous murmurs of disapprobation arose among the crowd. This went so
far, that at length the president had to interfere, and to request
the witness to confine himself strictly to the facts, as all such
embellishments and elaborate descriptions were clearly superfluous.

