The chief-djaksa appeared as public prosecutor, and, as this was
Dalima's first offence, he demanded that she should be condemned to
three months' hard labour.

August van Beneden however stood up for the defence, and drew the
attention of the court to the fact that the small box which had been
produced, was precisely similar to that other one which the bandoelan
pretended to have discovered in the hut of Setrosmito the defendant's
father. He further mentioned the rather strange coincidence, that,
on the body of Singomengolo, after his murder, a number of other
little boxes were found, all precisely similar again to that produced
against Dalima. He called the coppersmith from whom the bandoelan
had procured these boxes, and this man swore that Singomengolo had
bought twelve of them from him, at the price of seven guilders.

August van Beneden took advantage of this man's evidence to remind
the court of the dodges and tricks which all opium hunters were
well known to employ in order to secure the conviction of any one
they might accuse. Finally he altogether disputed the authority of
the individuals who had testified to the nature and value of the
opium. The document they had drawn up as containing the result of
their examination, he rejected as absolutely valueless; inasmuch as
it was the work of Chinamen who were no chemists at all; but had
come to the conclusion that the drug could not have been obtained
through the regular channels, simply on the evidence of colour, taste,
and smell. He pointed out that, as a general rule, the worst opium
smugglers were the farmers themselves, and that, in hardly any two
cases were their wretched mixtures alike. In fact he defied even the
most expert chemist to establish anything like perfect similarity
between two different decoctions of the same farmer.

The young advocate was completely successful; and the court at
Santjoemeh declared that the charge against baboe Dalima had not been
satisfactorily established, and therefore acquitted her. She was set
at liberty there and then, and the treasury was ordered to pay the
costs of the prosecution.

