The verdict was hailed with thundering applause, and the public
became so demonstrative that the president had peremptorily to call
for silence. Mokesuep left the court amidst looks and gestures of
the most profound contempt and much hissing and hooting. He got into
his carriage as quickly as he could and immediately drove off. It
was evident that the public was well aware of what had taken place
in the hut by the Djoerang Pringapoes, and that everybody knew the
odious part Mokesuep had played in the transaction.

The trial was no sooner over than a crowd of well-wishers surrounded
the unfortunate Javanese girl Every one could plainly enough see the
painful situation she was in, and pitied her accordingly. Had the
law allowed further inquiry, Lim Ho might have found himself in a
difficult position; but as no legal remedy existed, the public showed
the greatest sympathy towards his victim. On all sides she received
congratulations on the happy issue of her trial, on all sides she heard
kind words and friendly offers. Van Nerekool, Grenits, Grashuis, van
Rheijn, and van Beneden, were of course close to the poor creature who,
though deeply moved by the sympathy she received, yet could not refrain
from shedding tears of sorrow as she thought of her blighted youth. Van
Nerekool proposed to place her in the house of an aged couple where
she might be sure of the kindest treatment in return for such services
as she could render to the mistress of the house. Dalima heartily
thanked the young judge for his great kindness; but she told him that
she intended to take up her abode with her mother until after the
event she was expecting. The poor girl was a genuine child of nature,
and felt no false shame as she spoke of her misfortune. She took that
opportunity, however, to gain some information about nonna Anna. But,
as we know, Charles van Nerekool could tell her nothing more than that
her young mistress had spent some time at Karang Anjer, and thereupon
had disappeared without leaving any clue as to her whereabouts.

