"Karang Anjer? where is that?" asked Dalima, musingly.

Van Nerekool gave her the necessary directions, and then he proceeded
to join his friends whom Grenits had invited to his house to drink
a glass together in honour of van Beneden's victory. It was getting
somewhat late in the day and the sun's rays darting down almost
perpendicularly made the heat most oppressive; but a good pair of
horses soon brought our friends to Grenits' door.

Glad enough to get under cover, they all rushed in, and Grenits at
once cried out to his servant, "Sidin, get us some fizz quickly!" and
a few moments after the young men were congratulating van Beneden on
his well-merited success in a glass of sparkling Veuve Clicquot.

After the first burst of excitement was over, and when they had
begun to discuss somewhat more calmly the incidents of the trial,
a feeling of disappointment began to prevail.

"Is it not enough to make one despair altogether of the future of our
fair Indian possessions," cried Grashuis, "when we come to think that
we are sitting here congratulating one another on the issue of such
a case as this? Every single person, including even the members of
the court itself, is convinced that poor little Dalima is the victim
of a most detestable outrage and yet, not only does the real culprit
escape scot free, but the innocent girl herself was very near being
found guilty, and punished for a purely imaginary offence! Could such
a thing ever have happened at home? There must be something radically
wrong in our entire colonial system."

"I will tell you in one word," replied Grenits, "where the mischief
lies, it is the abominable opium trade which is at the bottom of all
this, which overrules and demoralises everything out here. You heard
the head-djaksa's prosecution? Did you ever see anything more neatly
put together? Did you notice how cleverly all the witnesses who might
have spoken in Dalima's favour were got out of the way? Verstork
sent to Atjeh, Miss van Gulpendam smuggled away somehow or other,
while Mokesuep did not fail to put in an appearance."

