"The brute!" muttered van Rheijn.

"Yes," continued Grenits, "and if it had not been for our friend
August, that poor girl would have been found guilty as so many others
have been who have been falsely accused of opium crimes. Just now
you asked, Leendert, whether any such thing could possibly happen
in Holland. I do not take upon myself to say what may be possible
or impossible there; but this one thing I do know, that our whole
opium-system is derived from thence, that year by year the opium
revenue keeps on rising by several millions; and that thus the passion
for opium is, by every possible means, excited to its utmost pitch. I
further know that our Government and our Government officials are thus
compelled by the authorities at home to support the opium farmers and
to wink at all their dirty tricks with their attendant train of fatal
consequences. Is it not enough to make one hide one's head for shame
when we come to think that we belong to a nation whose sordid love of
money and grasping avarice not only tolerate such a state of things,
but actually fosters and encourages it?"

All present shook their heads and sighed; for the words Grenits
uttered were the simple truth.

"But," inquired van Rheijn, "ought we to blame the nation for all
this? Ought we not rather to find fault with the Government which
countenances such abuses?"

"The Government!" impatiently exclaimed Grenits, "a nation always
deserves the Government it has. Yes, of course, it is the Government
which issues the orders and which acts; but the nation looks on
and--is loud in its praises of a minister who can boast that he makes
as much out of the business as can be squeezed from it. It seems to
me that the Dutch people have either lost their manliness altogether
or else are on the verge of idiocy. It has no eye, no heart for its
colonies, no feeling whatever, nothing, only one single thought:
'that minister balances his budget admirably!' And then the minister,
feeling certain of success and applause, actually in his place in the
House allows himself to perpetrate jests which an ordinary individual
would be ashamed to utter in a pot-house. Then his friends applaud and
the legislature seems to consider his jokes a very pretty exhibition
of wit."

