For a few moments, a silence fell upon all present. They quite
justified Grenits' conduct, and in fact applauded it as a generous
outburst of manly indignation. But yet the fact of ten days'
imprisonment threw a gloom over these young men, who were so full of
vigour and life. The condemned man, however, was the first to regain
his cheerfulness, "Well, my friends," cried he, "you will try and
preserve me from feeling too lonely, I hope."

"That we will!" cried one, "I have a splendid novel by Ebers, called
Serapis, it has only just come out, I will send it you."

"And I," exclaimed another, "I shall have my piano sent up to the jail,
then you can strum away to your heart's content."

"And we will come and sit with you as often as we possibly can,
you will not lack company."

"That's best of all!" cried Grenits gaily.

"I will bring my fiddle."

"Yes, and I my flute."

"Then," laughed Grenits, "we shall get the whole jail to execute a
sarabande de condamnés."

"The sarabande is all very well," remarked van Beneden; "but I think
we might do something better than that."

"Well, what is it?" asked all in chorus.

"You remember, do you not, that as we were seated together under
the Wariengien tree on the green at Kaligaweh, I proposed making an
experiment in opium smoking, in order to find out what its effect
really is. Very well, on Sunday next, we might carry out that plan."

"Capital! a capital idea!"

"But," asked Grashuis, "who will provide the opium and the pipe?"

"Leave that to me," replied van Rheijn, "don't trouble about that,
I shall get all we require."

"All right, gentlemen," said Grenits, "that's a bargain!"

As he spoke he shook hands with his friends, and the company broke up.








CHAPTER XXX.

BABOE DALIMA'S JOURNEY.


A long the rough mountain path which runs winding through the volcanic
region of Soembrieng and Lindoro, baboe Dalima, a few days after her
acquittal and release, was stepping along with her usual firm and
springy tread. She was clad with the utmost simplicity in sarong and
kabaja, but was as neat and tidy as in the days when she was Anna's
favourite servant. On her shoulder, tied up in a shawl, she carried
a bundle containing probably some articles of wearing apparel. We
must notice also that she was not barefooted; but wore a pair of
sandals to the use of which she seemed perfectly accustomed. It was
evident, therefore, that the girl intended to take a long journey,
while her outward appearance showed that she must already have got
over a considerable amount of ground. How then did Dalima get to the
spot where now we find her, at so great a distance from Kaligaweh,
and what was the object of her journey?

