Immediately after her release, she had made, as we saw in the last
chapter, some anxious inquiries after nonna Anna. When she was
told that her young mistress had gone to Karang Anjer and had then
disappeared without leaving a trace, her simple brain had set to work;
and there arose within her the determination to go and seek for Anna
on her own account. She had but little comprehension of the social
relations which exist between Europeans; but somehow her instinct
told her that her beloved Nana must be in distress. She felt that the
dear girl must be sorely in need of a companion, and so the faithful
creature at once devoted herself to share the load of sorrow with
her former mistress. But, Karang Anjer was a great way off--in her
estimation the distance seemed infinite. Her friends in the dessa had
told her that it lay somewhere yonder, not far from the great sea,
and near to the territory of the Queen of the south, a mysterious
being of whom the Javanese stand in the greatest awe.

But all that could not deter her. She made up her mind to summon up
courage and to plod resolutely on, even though, as her friends again
had informed her, the road might take her along seething solfataras,
along burning mountains, along dizzying precipices and through
lonely forests. She could travel only by day for fear of the wild
beasts. Other fears she had none; for she knew that no man would
wantonly molest her; and her outward appearance was not such as
to suggest that she had anything to lose. And yet she did possess
a treasure, which she had anxiously hoarded and had tied up in a
handkerchief and now was carrying with her in the bundle which hung
from her shoulder. When she lay in prison at Santjoemeh, nonna Anna
had, from time to time, sent her small sums of money; van Beneden
also and van Nerekool when they visited her to gather particulars
for her defence, never failed to leave a few coins with the poor
Javanese girl. All these presents she had thankfully accepted and
most carefully saved up; for she always had an eye to the future. In
this manner she had collected quite forty guilders, and this money,
she had before starting, changed into twopenny and fivepenny pieces,
knowing well that the sight of guilders or rixdollars might attract
the attention of the evil-disposed, and might bring trouble upon her.

