Thus then had she started on her journey, and, with the little
bundle which contained all her earthly possessions on her back,
she had trudged over hill and dale; and after eight days of steady
walking, she was beginning to draw near to her destination. Whenever,
at nightfall, she reached some dessa she would at once seek out the
native priest and tell him that she was travelling to Karang Anjer
in search for her father whom she hoped to find there.

Perceiving the plight she was in, the good man then used generally
to direct her to some kind-hearted woman, who willingly took her in
for the night, and not unfrequently refused to take the small coin
she tendered in payment for her lodging. Sometimes even they would
give her a couple of small parcels of boiled rice as provision on the
road. But she was not always so fortunate. Sometimes it happened that
she could not well make out the directions given to her, and thus
night would come on before she could reach any inhabited spot. Then
she used to beg for a resting-place on the bench of some guard-house,
and her prayer was never refused. But, on one occasion, even this poor
resource failed her. Her road that evening lay through a dense wood,
the sun was about to set, and under the thick foliage it soon grew
pitch dark. She could keep to the path only by looking upward and
following the narrow strip of sky which showed through the tree-tops
stretching along in the same direction as the rough road. The stars
were twinkling brightly, and for some time she listened breathlessly
hoping to hear some sound, such as the late crowing of a cock, or the
measured strokes on the rice tomboks, which might lead her to some
human dwelling. Then she hurried on again; but she did not come across
even a detached guard-house. At length she was suddenly brought to a
standstill by the shrill discordant "meoh! meoh!" of a peacock which,
perched in the upper branches of a lofty tree, thus announced that the
last glimmer of light was disappearing in the west. Dalima stopped
in terror, for she well knew that the peacock is hardly ever heard
in the woods unless a tiger is near. Soon, however, she recovered
her presence of mind, and quickly glancing round, she plunged into
the wood and began to climb into a tree which stood close by. She
was not indeed very well fitted for such gymnastics; but carefully
clambering up, she, with some trouble, managed to reach one of the
lower branches. As soon as she got there she felt safe. A panther
will rarely attack mankind, and the tiger, she knew, does not climb
trees. So she tried to make herself as comfortable as she could on the
branch which was, fortunately, quite thick enough to bear her weight,
and grew out horizontally so as to form a kind of seat. But that night
of nearly eleven hours seemed to her of interminable length. She
did not dare to give way to sleep, fearing that she might lose her
balance and fall to the ground, and the branch on which she tried to
settle herself, and the trunk against which she leaned, were covered
with a thick knotty bark, which pressed into her limbs and gave her
great pain. Again and again she attempted to change her position,
but the relief thus obtained was only temporary. Then she tried to
assume the squatting attitude which is customary with the natives;
but, in clambering up the tree, the sandals had dropped from her feet,
and the rough bark, cutting into the soles of her feet, soon made
that position unbearable. To these discomforts was added the plague of
myriads of insects, such as ants, mosquitoes, sundry kinds of beetles
and other pests, which settled upon her, and caused the most frightful
itching, while her hands, which supported her, and with which she had
to keep her balance, were not always free to brush the tormentors away.

