She had also been obliged to drop her bundle, which contained her
clothes, her money, in fact all she possessed; but she felt no anxiety
on that account. No human being was present in that wood, and even if
any one had been lurking about, he would hardly have been wandering
in the dark just under the tree where she was seated. As for the
animals which might be roving about, they would not disturb her little
bundle. So the night crept slowly along, and it was with a deep sigh of
relief that the poor girl at length welcomed the first faint streak of
grey which began to tinge the eastern horizon. But she had much longer
still to wait and endure the pain which every instant was getting more
acute. For, during the night, she had heard very alarming sounds. The
hoarse and terrible hoh! heoh! of the tiger had resounded more than
once. There was no mistaking that well-known cry, and however painful
her position might be, she could not yet venture to descend. Indeed
the tiger is never more formidable than just at dawn of day--then he
prowls about noiselessly like a huge cat seeking for his prey--then he
hurries off to the nearest water hole to quench his burning thirst,
and to lay in his provision of water for the day. In one word, she
knew that the hour of early dawn is the most dangerous; and she felt
that she must still have patience. On that branch she must remain
perched until the sun was fairly above the horizon, and the daylight
had penetrated the foliage, driving all evil beasts to their lairs.

Soon she found that she had done well to be patient, for once again
the peacock gave forth his screeching meoh! meoh! thus hailing the
dawn as he had the evening before greeted the last glow of the setting
sun. Thus Dalima knew that the tiger was close by. So she kept her
seat high up on her branch, shivering with cold in the keen morning
air, while she watched the faint streak of light gradually expanding
and deepening, and the stars fading away one by one. Gradually the
rosy tint of morning began to spread to the zenith, driving back the
damp shadows deeper and deeper into the wood. Oh! how slowly time
seemed to go by! how lazily the sun seemed to rise! And no wonder;
for the agony she was enduring was growing well-nigh intolerable. She
twisted and stretched her cramped limbs as she anxiously peered all
around. Under her feet all was as yet dusky and grey. She could only
just descry her bundle lying under her on the grass, and her sandals
at the foot of the tree; but overhead the light was already shining,
and the choir of birds was beginning to carol forth its morning hymn
of praise. But how slowly time crept on! She saw the sky assuming a
deeper and ruddier hue, while the East was clad in glorious purple. The
clouds, the trees, the leaves, the branches above were all bathed in
gold, and presently the light broke through to the bottom of the wood.

