"Oh, then, tell me," cried the sobbing girl, with a ray of hope in
her swollen eyes.

"I may not, I cannot tell you, baboe."

"But why not, njaa?"

"Because, before Anna left me she made me promise her--"

"What, njaa?"

"That I would let no one know--no one, do you understand me, Dalima?"

"That does not apply to me, you may trust me, njaa."

"No, no," replied Mrs. Steenvlak, "I will trust no one--Anna was
particularly anxious that I should not speak."

"But, perhaps she is in need of my help, njaa. Where can she be? She
is not fit to take care of herself, she is not accustomed to it. Do
tell me," sobbed the poor girl again, "I must find my Nana."

"No," said Mrs. Steenvlak firmly, "a promise once made must not be
broken, you know that as well as I do, Dalima."

For all her firmness, the kind-hearted lady was deeply moved by the
devotion of the poor creature, who had already gone through so much
suffering in her little life, that it was a wonder her temper had not
been soured altogether by misfortune. She was half sorry that she had
given her word to Anna; but yet, until she was authorised to do so,
she did not feel justified in breaking silence.

"The best advice I can give you," she said at length, as she looked
with much compassion at the girl who sat sobbing at her feet, "is to
return at once to Santjoemeh, or better still to Kaligaweh. Can I do
anything for you to help you on your journey back?"

Baboe Dalima sadly shook her head.

"Come, come, you will want some money on the road, eh?" and opening her
purse she took out four rix-dollars and put them into the girl's hand.

Without uttering a word, Dalima accepted the gift, and carefully tied
up the money in her handkerchief. Then she rose, respectfully kissed
Mrs. Steenvlak's hand, and disappeared.

As soon as she got outside, she muttered, "That gives me so many more
days to look for Nana."

Dalima's wants were but few. A couple of pence for her lodging,
some twenty, or five and twenty cents for her food--that was all
she required. Instead of leaving Karang Anjer, she continued to
wander about the neighbourhood. She questioned, she inquired, she
managed to penetrate everywhere. She could do what van Nerekool,
as a European, and in his position as judge, was not able to do. She
would, for instance, sit down at every small fruit and coffee stall she
found on her way. At one place she would sit down and eat some rice,
flavoured with red pepper; at another place again she would purchase
some rasped cocoa-nut sweetened with the syrup of goela-areng; at
another little stall again she would sip a cup of coffee or eat a
bunch of ramboetans. These delicacies she could purchase for a very
few cents, sometimes they cost her nothing at all; for the woman who
kept the stall would look strangely at her, and when she produced her
money would quietly put it back, and say: "Never mind, keep that for
your baby, and take another cup of coffee, you are welcome to it."

