
It was a glorious afternoon in August and the green at Santjoemeh
presented a pleasant and most animated appearance. The military band
was performing a selection of music and numbers of carriages were
slowly moving about among a crowd of pedestrians. The fine turf which,
during the west monsoon, gives the square so fresh and pleasant an
aspect, was now completely dried up and burnt to a uniform dark brown
tint, while here and there the soil, which mostly consists of red
clay, was gaping open in wide fissures under the scorching influence
of the tropical sun.

But at that hour in the afternoon, the sun had already run a
considerable portion of his daily course, and was casting his slanting
rays through the tops of the tall kanarie trees which, with their dark
and glossy foliage, enclose the green as in a frame of verdure. The
north-easterly monsoon was blowing freshly along the coasts of Java;
it was rustling in the leaves, in the branches, and even far inland
it was making its cooling influence felt, pleasantly tempering the
heat of the day.

The whole of Santjoemeh was astir. Europeans, natives, Chinamen and
Arabs were walking about in motley groups. Every one seemed bent upon
enjoying the music and upon breathing his share of the deliciously
cool evening air.

The Resident van Gulpendam and his wife, as charming as ever, had
driven up the green in a handsome landau drawn by a pair of splendid
horses. They were very busy exchanging greetings and nods on all sides;
and distributing their most affable smiles among their friends and
acquaintances. Officials of all kinds and of all grades were there and
the leading men of commerce; all these, accompanied by their wives and
daughters, sauntered about laughing, talking, or enjoying the music.

We just now said all Santjoemeh was astir. But yet anyone who was well
acquainted with the European world at Santjoemeh--and really it was
not very difficult in that small inland town to become tolerably well
known to everyone of any social importance--could not help noticing
that one small group was wanting; a group which, by reason of its
youth, its wit and gaiety, always was wont to impart a certain flavour
of mirth to all these gatherings; a group which used to attract the
brightest eyes and win the most beaming smiles--this little group was,
on the present occasion, conspicuous by its absence.

