"What can have become of Edward van Rheijn?"

"Where is Leendert Grashuis?"

"Where can August van Beneden have got to?"

Such were the inquiries which might be heard on every side.

"Yes, and Grenits, where is he? What has become of our merry Theodoor?"

"Theodoor? Why, don't you know--he is in the lock-up?"

"Oh, yes, of course, I had quite forgotten; he is in for ten days, eh?"

"Ah! well then, you hardly need ask where the others are to be found."

"They are keeping him company you may be sure--cela va sans dire."

"They are faithful friends these four."

"Faithful, you call them? I tell you their devotion to each other is
positively edifying. They are simply inseparable."

"Hallo!" cried another, "there goes Mokesuep!"

"I say, just look; now he is making his bow to the Resident. What a
magnificent sweep--his hat almost touches the ground!"

"And what a charming smile the fair Laurentia is giving him."

"I should rather think so. In that late business of Lim Ho--"

"Come, I say! no scandal if you please!"

"Scandal you call it; why, all Santjoemeh is talking about it!"

"Mokesuep," cried another, "won't go and pay Grenits a visit, I bet!"

"He had better not show his nose there; he would find himself in
queer street, I fancy!"

"Yes, that he would; and no more than he deserves--the scoundrel!"

"Look at him now, shaking hands with the Assistant Resident."

"He is only a new chum--as soon as he has got to know the fellow--"

"Why, then he will do just exactly as the Resident does; he will
follow his lead, you will see."

"Well, well," remarked another, "such fellows have their value."

"Come gentlemen, do keep quiet; let us listen; they are just striking
up Le lever du soleil."

"The lever of what did you say? That's a good joke--the sun is just
setting."

"Do be quiet, I want to hear the music."

It was the last piece on the programme, and at the moment when a
brilliant fugue seemed to celebrate the rising of the orb of day--the
actual sun was disappearing behind the hills to the west of Santjoemeh.

