"Just twelve hours out!" cried one, "either the sun or the bandmaster
must have been having a drop too much!"

A very few minutes afterwards the green was deserted.

However, the frequenters of the Sunday afternoon concert, had been
quite right in their surmise. Van Nerekool, van Beneden and van
Rheijn--the three "vans," as the wits of Santjoemeh loved to call them,
had indeed gone to the prison to pass the afternoon and evening, with
their friend Grenits. He, poor fellow, had been condemned to ten days'
imprisonment and he had already been in durance vile for some time.

As soon as they had had their bath after the usual siesta, they had
started for the prison, and at that hour the sun was still high and
the streets were almost deserted. They were true friends and they
cheerfully gave up these hours of amusement, which were indeed the most
pleasant of the whole week, to the poor prisoner. It was a sacrifice,
however, which brought its own reward.

The apartment in which the young men were on that afternoon assembled,
did not by any means wear a dismal appearance, it suggested anything
rather than a prison cell. The room was of moderate size and perfectly
square. On either side of the door two large windows admitted light and
air, and these could be closed by means of Venetian blinds. The door
gave access to a tolerably wide verandah, the architraves of which
rested on pillars in the Doric style; and this gallery was common to
four other similar apartments which served the same purpose as that
for which Grenits was immured--namely to deprive their occupants,
for the time being, of liberty.

That verandah looked out upon a small but cheerful looking quadrangle,
very tastefully laid out in grass plots and planted with flowering
shrubs all covered with gay and many-coloured blossoms.

The little square was enclosed by the buildings which formed the jail,
one of its sides being occupied by the governor's house, a building
which had a double row of pillars and whose spacious front-gallery
was enlivened by a splendid collection of roses of all kinds, amongst
which the thick double Persian rose, the fair Devoniensis, the Souvenir
de la Malmaison and the fragrant tea-rose were conspicuous.

