The room occupied by Grenits was very prettily furnished. It had
a good table, a very comfortable seat something like a garden seat,
and half-a-dozen chairs; all these of the best native workmanship. The
walls were hung with four or five fairly good pictures, and a handsome
lamp was suspended from the ceiling. The floor was almost entirely
covered with tiles and these again were hidden by matting of the finest
texture. But the most elegant piece of furniture the room contained
was undoubtedly the piano which van Beneden had sent to the prison
for his friend's amusement. The bedroom, no less tastefully furnished
than the apartment we have attempted to describe, was immediately
adjacent to the sitting-room--so that Grenits had not much reason
to complain, and his captivity was not very irksome. Said Grashuis,
as he entered and looked around:

"Why, old fellow! this looks really very comfortable. This is the
first time I have ever been inside a prison, and I had no idea the
Government took such good care of the criminals it has to keep under
lock and key."

"That's all you know about it!" laughed van Rheijn, "you ought to go
and inspect the other side."

"Where? on that side?" asked Grashuis as he pointed to the governor's
house.

"No, no," said van Beneden, "yonder in that wing, that is where you
ought to go and have a look. That would make you sing a different
tune."

"Shall we go?" cried Leendert as he rose from his seat.

"Thank you, much obliged--the smell would soon drive you away. The poor
native prisoners lie there huddled together in a space miserably too
small for them. The only furniture you would see there is a wretched
bench or two, which in filthiness so closely rivals the floor,
that the original colour of both has long since disappeared. At
nightfall some further ornaments are introduced in the shape of
sundry representatives of the tub family--and these utensils presently
contribute their fragrance to the already pestilent atmosphere. The
prisoners have but a very scanty allowance of air and light, admitted
through two small heavily barred openings. The walls are supposed
to be white-washed; but are smeared all over with blotches of blood,
produced by mosquitoes and other still fouler insects crushed against
them by the human finger, and are covered with sirih-spittle and other
nameless abominations. All things considered, I believe you will give
me credit for acting the part of a friend in strongly dissuading you
from paying a visit to that horrid den."

