"And so say I," added van Rheijn.

"Yet," remarked Grenits, "even from that low point of view the problem
would be worth studying. Don't you remember what we saw in the den
at Kaligaweh?"

"Bah! bah!" cried all in disgust.

"Come, no more of that," said van Nerekool very seriously. "If your
experiment is to reproduce any scenes like those--then I will take
no part in it."

"That is exactly my opinion," said van Rheijn, "and I am anxious
therefore to give to our investigation a totally different aspect,
and to conduct it on strictly scientific principles."

"Very well," observed Grashuis; "but who is to conduct this scientific
investigation--to do that we need a man of science."

"Yes," said van Beneden, "we are no doubt most competent
representatives of the judicial, the civil, the mathematical and
the commercial branches of the community; but we do not represent
the faculty."

"Just so," replied van Rheijn; "but I have made provision for that?"

"In what way?"

"I have invited Murowski to join us."

"What? Murowski the Pole?" cried one.

"Murowski the snake-charmer?" said another.

"Murowski the butterfly hunter?" cried a third.

"Yes, gentlemen, Murowski, our learned medical officer. But, if you
please, a little more respect for that high-priest of science. Do
not, pray, forget that he is the most celebrated entomologist India
has ever possessed and that is, I think, saying a good deal in these
days when every little German prince gives his paltry decorations and
family orders for any complete--or incomplete--collection of insects,
or for a bowl of disgusting reptiles tortured to death in arrack. And,
further, please not to forget that he is a most earnest observer of
all scientific phenomena, a man whose very name will impress upon
our séance that stamp of learning which it will need if it is to
go forth to the world of science as a noteworthy experiment. Our
Pole was in ecstasies when he heard of our experiment, and when I
asked him to undertake the management of it, he promised to bring his
thermometers, his stethoscopes--You will see what a dose of learning
he will give us!"

