"It is strange," he continued, "I have had no answer to my letter."

"No more have I," said van Beneden.

"Nor I!" cried Grenits.

"I don't much wonder at that," replied van Rheijn, "he is much too
busy yonder at Kotta Radja. You may fancy how much he has to do,
as he is the only civilian in that military world."

"Yes," said Grashuis, "a military world which has become a very small
one now that our centralising system has come into operation."

"A system, Leendert, which might more properly be styled a system
of isolation," said Grenits; "it won't be very long before our
grand army will be sitting there like Robinson Crusoe on his desert
island without any other means of communication with the surrounding
inhabitants than that of bullets."

"Come, come, Theodoor," interrupted one, "no politics."

"Especially, I suppose, no Atjeh politics," laughed Grenits. "Oh
aye, I know all about that, we Dutchmen dread that subject as a cat
dreads water; but, my friends, remember that for all that, it is a
question which involves the most vital interests of our country and
its colonies."

"Now that'll do, that'll do!" they cried.

"All right, my friends," said Grenits with a laugh, "I must not,
of course, inflict upon my kind friends who deign to come and while
away the time of a poor captive, a subject of conversation which is
distasteful to them. But, yet, I cannot make out what in the world
William can have to control at Kotta Radja. The native population
which has, nominally, remained faithful to us and shows its good
faith by treacherously attacking our soldiers--"

"Now there you go again--do shut up!"

"Well, but;" persisted Grenits, "this is no politics, I do not suppose
he has to look after the mess of the soldiers and marines!"

"Bah!" cried van Rheijn somewhat contemptuously, "what does a
merchant know about such things? It is very much as if I should give
a dissertation on the state of trade in madapollams."

"You are right, quite right," laughed Grenits, "I confess myself
wrong. Let the cobbler stick to his last. But now for William; what
does he write about?"

