"Here is his letter," said van Rheijn; "but I ought first to tell
you that I sent him a short account of the changes which have taken
place in his district of Banjoe Pahit since he left it. I told him
what lamentable influence the too compliant temper of his successor
has had upon the condition of the population. To this letter of mine
I have his reply, and I need hardly tell you that his views on that
subject are not couleur de rose. But you had better hear what he says:

"'All you have told me, dear Edward, about the state of affairs at
Banjoe Pahit has made me very sad. Agriculture neglected, breach
of contract a daily occurrence, and the fatal passion for opium
increasing day by day! Alas, alas! can all this be justly put to
the account of my successor? Should you not rather cast the blame
upon me? Such terrible changes surely never take place suddenly. No,
no, if indeed matters have changed for the worse as rapidly as you
say, then I fear there must have been some antecedent cause for
this wretched state of decay. I will tell you frankly, my friend,
that my conscience bitterly upbraids me. It tells me that I have
not always done that which it was my bounden duty to do; and that
I have not set my face against the abuse of opium as sternly and as
rigidly as I should have done. It is true, of course, that the opium
den was established at Kaligaweh before I came to the place; and,
so far, my conscience is clear. But the evil had not then assumed the
proportions which makes it such a terrible curse at present. At that
time there were still a great number of inhabitants who never touched
opium. I might then, had I only been firm enough, have insisted upon
the fact, that the opium den ought not to be maintained there--that,
in fact, it had no reason to exist, inasmuch as it did not, at that
time, provide for any local need. I did so, it is true; but weak and
timid as I was, I did so in a half-hearted way. I did not forcibly
enough insist upon the terrible fact that this same opium den was
a most insidious means of seduction; and that, in the end, it must
inevitably bring the poor people to ruin and misery.

