"'That is where I feel I am to blame. I may, perhaps, in self
justification, try to persuade myself that, as a civil servant, I was
bound to do all I could to augment the national income, that, by not
opposing with all my might the use of opium, I was helping, as far as
I could, to redress the balance of our national expenditure; that,
even had I tried to check the havoc wrought by this baleful drug,
I could have expected no assistance from my superior officer van
Gulpendam, nor yet have hoped for any support from the authorities at
home; that, on the contrary, they would between them have crushed me
like a bit of glass had I dared so much as to lift up my little finger
against this infamous stop-gap of our national finances. I have tried
to persuade myself that any such action on my part must have plunged
my relations, who for the present and, as far as I can see, for the
future, are entirely dependent upon me, into the direst poverty--

"'But, my dear Edward, all this sophistry profits me nothing; my
conscience refuses to be lulled by any such specious arguments. For
conscience is inexorable, and it loudly cries out that I have failed
to do my duty as public servant in not vigorously standing up for
the poor natives to whose protection I was pledged. Alas! the past
cannot be recalled!

"'If it were lawful, under any circumstances whatever, to rejoice
over the death of any fellow creature, I think I might rejoice over
the death of Singomengolo--that detestable bandoelan who has caused
so much trouble and misery. But, why do I talk of exulting over his
death? Some equally worthless fellow will no doubt be found to take his
place and to undertake the dirty work of an opium spy. The farmers are
wealthy enough to create, so to speak, such creatures every where, and
the Government! why--the Government--yes, it will, with a smile, pocket
the foully earned money amidst the applause of the Dutch nation.'"

"I say!" exclaimed Grenits, sarcastically, "don't you think it is
about time to cry 'Shut up?'"

