But van Rheijn went on quietly reading, not heeding the interruption:

"'I was just now blaming myself for not having carried out my duty
more strictly. I hardly need tell you that I have made a solemn vow
to act very differently in the future, and that I have determined
henceforth to protect, to the utmost of my powers, the natives against
the horrors of opium. But, that is more easily said than done. For,
whom can I protect out here in Atjeh? The native population? Good
Lord! all I see about me in this place resembles anything in the
world rather than a native population. There is no such thing. Just
let me tell you what is going on here. General van Swieten landed in
1873, and from that moment the natives have retired as our troops have
advanced. When he returned to Europe we were holding a piece of ground
which was completely deserted by the natives, and on which not a single
Javanese was ever seen. I ought to except the narrow strip of land
between the river Atjeh and the sea, the so-called dominion of Marassa,
which, at most, supported no more than two thousand souls, and these,
let me tell you, were by no means addicted to opium. Later on, when
Colonel Pel took the command, things did not improve, on the contrary,
the state of affairs grew gradually worse and worse. The natives were
more determined than ever in their resistance to the hated invaders;
and though that officer did try to introduce something like order into
that most puzzling place Kotta Radja, which was entrusted to his care,
and it must be said, did so with conspicuous success, yet daily his
position became, if possible, one of greater isolation. Very soon no
other communication with the surrounding natives became possible than
by means of arms; and when they did meet it was not for the purpose
of amicable conferences, but only to do one another as much injury
as possible. You know all about this, for history must have told it
you. The very first thing, indeed, which arises and flourishes under
the folds of our Dutch ensign is not a house of prayer or a school,
but an opium den. That is the first token of civilisation and the
first blessing our rule brings with it. Among these conquered races
there was not, as yet, a single man who would smoke the stuff; but
yet an opium farmer had to be found. And why? Look you, Edward,
when I put that question seriously to myself, then I can find no
other answer than this one, namely: that it was necessary to make the
Dutch people believe that the time of public expenditure on Atjeh had
passed, and that now the place was beginning to pay. You may remember
what a shout of joy was uttered by the daily press in Holland when,
in the year 1875, the news arrived that the retail sale of opium in
Atjeh was producing a yearly sum of 190,000 guilders, that is 16,000
guilders a month. A few, those who were capable of reflection, shook
their heads doubtfully; but not even they were able to estimate the
extent of the evil which this apparent gain would inevitably entail.

