"'It is, however, as clear as day, that no farmer could have been
found to bid for the monopoly if the opium had been sold only to the
few Marassans who remained faithful to us. Even granting that every
single man of them smoked opium--and that was very far from being true,
for the lower classes in this place are not nearly so much addicted
to the habit as they are in Java; but even granting that--the entire
number of smokers could not have exceeded three hundred. How could
sixteen thousand guilders a month have been made out of these?--Why,
it was clearly impossible, not even if every man smoked opium,
drank opium and ate opium. You must consider that the farmer has
to pay for the raw material with which the Government supplies him,
that he has to pay all current expenses, that he has to make a living
for himself, and that he must, moreover, make some profit. Thus I
confidently state that, in order to be able to give sixteen thousand
guilders for his privilege, he must retail opium for at least three
times that amount. But who then are the consumers? Who are the people
that bring this so-called profit to our national chest?

"'I will tell you, Edward, who they are:

"'In the first place, all the native soldiers quartered here. In
consequence of the state of war and of the wretched arrangements in
camp and bivouac, it is utterly impossible to keep any control over
these men, and thus there is no question of repressive--still less
of preventive--measures. The agents of the opium farmer prowl about
among the encampments and bivouacs and most generously deign to accept,
in payment of the poison they supply, the pay and, when that is gone,
even the very clothing of the soldiers.

"'Now, my friend, I ask you, do you begin to see why, during the Atjeh
war, we suffered such terrible losses through sickness, and why our
losses still remain so great? Now do you begin to see why all our
hospitals are overcrowded? Do you now see what has demoralised our
entire Indian force to such an extent, that, if we should have to
face a serious rebellion or have to resist an attack on our colonies
from any Western power--we can expect very little, or indeed nothing
at all, from it? Then just reckon up what every soldier costs by
the time he is equipped and drilled and fit to send out to join his
regiment in the field. Just calculate what expense the country is
put to for keeping all these men in hospital, and then you will be
able to judge of the wretched shortsightedness of a policy which has
created so fictitious a source of gain.

