"'I have mentioned, in the first place, the native soldiers as
principal consumers of the poison; but the Chinese coolies and workmen
also, whom the Government has to hire at an immense cost, from Penang,
from Malacca, from Singapore, from Tandjong Pinang, and even from
China itself, to occupy the country which the Atjehers have deserted,
furnish another considerable contingent to the opium smokers, and
consequently to the floating population of the hospitals and to the
fixed population of the grave-yards. Who shall dare to compute with
anything approaching to accuracy, the sums of money which are thus
squandered merely to fill up the gaps which the abuse of opium is
perpetually making among this working population?

"'And, in the third place, the opium farmer finds his customers among
the servants of the numerous officers, civil servants, and contractors;
and, though this class of smokers do not entail any loss in the shape
of money, inasmuch as the State has not to replace them; yet it must
not be forgotten that as a direct consequence of the demoralisation
of this class of men, there is at present at Kotta Radja, and more
especially at Oleh-leh, a degree of insecurity of life and property,
of which in Java you can form not the slightest conception.

"'With regard to the moral condition of Oleh-leh, the harbour of Kotta
Radja, it is simply indescribable! The things which daily are taking
place in the opium dens within and around that spot where the poison
can legally be purchased, simply baffle description.

"'We saw some horrid sights at Kaligaweh, did we not? Well, my friend,
what happens here exceeds everything that the most depraved imagination
can possibly conjure up.

"'The practices are, in one word, abominable.

"'But, you may say perhaps, that if the poison were not to be obtained
in a lawful way, men would procure it by illegal means. I say no! most
emphatically I say no! Not a single ship can approach the North-West
part of Sumatra's coast without being thoroughly searched. Very little
trouble and care would be amply sufficient to prevent even as much as
a single taël of opium to find its way into that part of Atjeh which
is in our occupation. It would be the simplest thing in the world to
prevent the import of the poison altogether.

