The doctor reddened up to the very roots of his hair, as he replied
in some confusion:

"Well, yes, I did meet her--"

"In that case, my dear fellow," continued van Beneden, "you need not
trouble yourself to make any apology at all, where there is a lady
in the case--"

"Stuff and nonsense!" broke in Murowski, "I wasn't in her company
for five minutes!"

"If that be the case, doctor," said van Rheijn, "we must ask you why
you have kept us so long. You knew we were all here waiting for you."

"Oh, never mind," put in Grashuis with a smile, "don't press him too
hard--our learned friend has probably been hunting some other pretty
little butterfly!"

"Yes, I can see him," continued van Beneden, "net in hand, running
after some splendid Sphynx."

"Indeed," growled Murowski, "you seem to have a pretty lively
imagination. Sphynx indeed! A funny kind of Sphynx has been after me!"

Van Rheijn laughed aloud. "Now, come," said he, "illustrious countryman
of Sobieski, of Poniatowski, and so many other worthies in ski,
let us have your news--for news you evidently have to tell us. Let
us have it. But, mind you, whatever excuse you may have to make--it
will have to be a a good one."

"As I was strolling about the green enjoying the music," began the
doctor, "my chief called me aside and said he wanted to see me at
his quarters as soon as ever the concert was over."

"Well, what of that?" cried the friends.

"A request of this kind," rejoined the Pole, "is, as you know,
gentlemen, tantamount to a positive order."

"Yes, yes," cried van Rheijn, full of curiosity, "we grant you that;
but what important communication had he to make to you?"

"No doubt some case of pneumato--" began van Beneden.

But Murowski did not give him time to complete his sentence.

"He simply wanted to tell me that I am to be transferred to another
station."

"You are going to leave us?" exclaimed the friends in a breath.

"Yes, gentlemen, so it seems--you see I have been a very long time
settled in this place," grumbled Murowski, "it must be quite five
months and a half."

