"Well, and where are they going to send you to?"

"To Gombong, it appears."

"They might very easily have packed you off to a worse place," said
van Rheijn, "to Singkelen, for instance, or to Atjeh."

"Oh, I have no doubt you are quite right there," sighed Murowski, "but
where on earth is Gombong? You must excuse my ignorance, gentlemen,"
continued he, with a smile, "the study of Indian geography is, I fear,
somewhat neglected in Poland."

"Gombong," exclaimed van Rheijn, "is in Bagelen."

"Indeed," replied the Pole, "I am much obliged to you for the
information; but where may Bagelen be?"

"Bagelen," said the embryo-controller, with a certain sense of
superiority, pointing in the required direction, "Bagelen is only
just over there."

"Not over the sea then?" cried Murowski, evidently much relieved.

"No, no, my dear fellow, not a bit of it; a carriage will take you
there very comfortably. But, why don't you ask van Nerekool, he has
but just returned from the very place. He knows all about it. Why! he
lost his heart there!"

"Lost his heart? At Gombong?" asked Murowski, looking from one to
the other with a puzzled air.

"Not exactly at Gombong; but at all events very close by, at Karang
Anjer. Do you know Miss van Gulpendam?"

"Pretty Miss van Gulpendam! Of course I do," exclaimed the doctor.

"Very well then, Miss van Gulpendam has gone to Karang Anjer, and
she has taken our friend's heart along with her."

"That's smart," replied the Pole, quite mistaking the meaning of the
word he employed.

"Oh, you think so?" asked Grashuis, drily.

This conversation, as may well be supposed, was highly distasteful
to van Nerekool. He hastened to put an end to it by saying:

"Gentlemen, I vote we begin to think of our experiment."

"Ah, you are right," exclaimed the doctor, "our experientia by all
means; experientia optima rerum magistra you know. By-the-bye, did
you receive the parcel I sent you?"

"Oh, yes," answered Grenits, "you will find it safe on that little
table yonder."

