Thereupon, assuming the most severe professional gravity, the worthy
Pole commenced carefully to weigh out the stock of opium, which he
found came to 142 grains. This fact he noted down in his pocket-book.

"You had better add," said van Rheijn, "that there are twenty-five
matas."

"Twenty-five what?" asked Murowski, again with a puzzled look.

"Twenty-five matas," repeated van Rheijn.

"Matas!" exclaimed the doctor. "What? eyes?"

The general burst of merriment which followed the question served
only to augment the doctor's surprise.

"Eyes!" laughed van Rheijn, "no, no, nothing of the kind. The
Government table of opium weights runs thus: 1 pikoe = 100 katties,
1 kattie = 16 taëls, 1 taël = 10 tji, and 1 tji = 10 matas, and
therefore--"

"All right, all right!" cried Murowski, as he joined in the laugh,
"now I see it."

"But, gentlemen," he continued, "we must look sharp, the sun has set."

It was nearly a quarter past six and, in the month of August, the
sun in Java sets some time before that hour.

Murowski requested Grenits to have the lamps lighted, and when the
servant had brought in the lights, the Pole continued:

"Now then, Grenits, get your clothes off!"

"What is that for?" asked Theodoor.

"My dear fellow," replied the doctor, "I must have you in pyjamas;
for I shall have narrowly to watch the action of the chest."

Grenits retired to his bedroom, and in a few minutes returned clad
in his ordinary night clothing. The doctor then made him lie down
on the divan, he felt his pulse, examined his tongue, sounded him
with the stethoscope, and carefully took his temperature. During
these preliminaries the countenance of Murowski wore a look of stern
solemnity which, no doubt, ought to have impressed the spectators
with the feelings of respect and awe due to a high priest of science;
but which, unfortunately, only served to excite their merriment. Even
Grenits himself could hardly repress a smile.

"What in the world is the good of all that hocus-pocus?" whispered
August van Beneden to Grashuis.

