"Why are you lawyers," rejoined the other, "always fencing with
scraps of Latin? It is the correct thing, I suppose. It is a trick
of the trade."

At length Grenits said: "Well, doctor, is my carcase in pretty
good order?"

"Perfect," replied Murowski, "perfectly normal; I must have a look
at the barometer, and then our experiment may begin at once."

The barometer recorded 745 m.m., and the doctor made a note of the
reading.

"There, now," he said to Grenits, "I am quite ready--no, no, wait a
bit--there is something else. When did you last partake of food?"

"At half-past twelve," replied Grenits, "the usual dinner."

"Thank you," said the doctor, and looking at his watch he continued,
"It is now half-past six--just six hours ago. Did you partake of
anything in the way of spirits?"

"No, nothing of the kind," answered Grenits, "nothing but a little
pale ale."

The doctor then placed his thermometers in position under the
patient's arms.

While all this was doing, van Rheijn was busily employed dividing the
opium into twenty-five equal parts. Then he lit the lamps, and, warming
the bits of opium at the flame of the little lamp to make them soft,
he kneaded into each of them some very finely cut Javanese tobacco,
and then rolled them into small round pills. His friends looked on
with some surprise at the dexterity with which he performed these
manipulations; for he had not told them that, previously, he had asked
Lim Ho to show him how the thing ought to be done. This lesson the
wily Chinaman had been only too willing to give him. "Who knows,"
thought he, with a grin, "perhaps the Europeans may take a fancy
to the delicacy." When Edward had prepared his pills, he produced
the bedoedan. It consisted of a tolerably thick bamboo stem some
nine or ten inches in length, highly polished and of a beautiful
light-brown tint. This stem was open at one end and sealed at the
other. Very near to the closed end and at right angles to the stem,
a small earthenware bowl was inserted into the wood.

