"It is a spick-span brand new one, I can assure you," said van Rheijn
to Theodoor, "I bought it myself for this very occasion."

"Thank heaven for that!" cried Grenits. "Just fancy if one of those
old sots had been sucking and slobbering at it! Bah! it makes me sick
to think of it."

"That shows how innocent you are," rejoined van Rheijn, "your
real lover of opium, your 'feinschmecker,' prizes an old pipe very
highly. When the stem is thoroughly saturated and the bowl thickly
encrusted with juice, the smoke must be indeed delicious."

Thus saying, Edward put one of the little pills into the bowl and
handed the pipe, thus loaded, to his friend, while he drew the little
table with the lamp within easy reach of the smoker.

Grenits lay stretched out at full length on the divan, the front of
his kabaai was wide open, so that the action of the chest was plainly
visible, and his head rested on a somewhat hard pillow.

"Now," remarked Grashuis, "there is only one thing lacking, and that
is the greasy filthy pillow we saw in the den at Kaligaweh."

"Much obliged to you, Leendert," laughed Grenits. "I would not for
the world touch the beastly thing--this pillow will do perfectly well."

Thus speaking, he turned his face to the lamp, applied his mouth to
the stem of his bedoedan, and, trying to imitate as closely as he
could the proceedings he had witnessed at Kaligaweh, he was about to
apply the bowl to the flame.

"Hold hard!" cried Murowski, "don't be in a hurry, one moment."

With these words he took Theodoor's pulse and held it for fully a
minute looking the while carefully at his watch. Then he once again
applied the stethoscope, examined the thermometers, replaced them,
and finally, in his notebook he wrote: Pulse 72, respiration 24,
temperature 99 1/2.

"That's it," said he, "now then puff away to your heart's content."

With one steady long pull Grenits sucked the flame of the lamp into
the bowl. As the opium-ball kindled, a faint sweetish odour began
to pervade the apartment, a smell somewhat suggestive of warm blood
and treacle.

