"Swallow it, swallow it!" cried van Rheijn.

This, however, was more easily said than done. Grenits made an effort
to swallow the nasty smoke; but then a violent fit of coughing
compelled him to open his mouth and blow out the fumes into the
room, augmenting thereby the nauseous smell which already pervaded
the apartment.

"Poeah! poeah!" cried Grenits, puffing and coughing.

"What do you feel? What do you taste?" asked Murowski.

"I am half choked with coughing," stammered Grenits, "and I have a
nasty sweetish taste in my mouth. I cannot describe it."

This first draw had been a deep one; the madat-ball was entirely
consumed; van Rheijn slipped another opium-ball into the pipe.

"Now, this time," said he, "you must try to swallow the smoke; you
have done so often enough when you have blown the smoke of a cigar
from your nose."

Poor Grenits made another attempt. This time he did actually inhale
the fumes and succeeded in retaining them for some seconds, after
which he allowed them slowly to curl out at his nostrils.

Dr. Murowski made a note in his pocket-book, pulse 70, respiration 25,
temperature normal.

Being asked again what he felt, Grenits answered: "I feel nothing;
but the sweet taste has gone and now it tastes rather bitter."

After the third pipe, Theodoor complained that his head felt heavy
and said he wanted to go to sleep. This drowsiness seemed to increase
with the fourth and fifth pipes; but, as yet, Grenits was well able to
resist it. He returned sensible answers to the questions put to him
by his friends; but remarked that his faculties seemed to be clouded
and that he had to reflect for some considerable time before he could
grasp the meaning of a question, and that he could not readily frame
an answer. He was able, however, to sit upright, and could even walk
up and down the room without support.

Dr. Murowski watched him carefully and after the sixth pipe he found,
that the drowsy feeling was still increasing, that the pulse was at
70 while the respiration had risen to 28.

