The eighth pipe produced further drowsiness, but yet Theodoor was
able to tell the time by the clock.

With the ninth pipe, his speech became thick and his utterance
indistinct; and when the doctor pressed him very hard, he said that
his tongue seemed as if it were increasing in volume.

After the tenth pipe, the patient began to complain of a bitter taste
in his mouth, and said he felt giddy. The doctor at once grasped his
hand; but pulse and respiration both remained unaltered.

After the eleventh, Grenits could no longer raise himself unaided
from the divan, and, when he tried to walk had to be supported,
so tottering and uncertain were his steps.

After the twelfth pipe, which he smoked very slowly, a remarkable
change came over the patient. Theodoor was now lying with his eyes
closed; but every now and then he opened them and there was now a
brightness in his look which offered a strange contrast to his former
dull and heavy expression. His sensations, he declared, were highly
pleasurable; but he could give no description of his feelings.

"Charles, Charles," he faintly cried, "give us a little music," and
he turned slightly to van Nerekool. The latter at once sat down at
the piano and began very softly to play Chopin's variations on airs
from Don Giovanni. The ecstatic expression on the smoker's face showed
that he took in every chord and every note.

"Go on playing," he murmured, as soon as Charles left off, "more
music--more smoke--give me the pipe."

This ecstatic state went on increasing with the thirteenth pipe and
with it also the craving for opium grew more intense.

Theodoor now began to laugh; he stretched out and waved his arms--the
most pleasant pictures were evidently floating through his brain. When
Murowski asked him what made him laugh he replied, with a fresh burst
of unnatural merriment: "I don't know, I don't know!"

Presently he requested van Nerekool to play him a certain passage from
Schumann's Manfred. In this state of ecstasy the patient remained while
he smoked his fourteenth and fifteenth pipes. The fixed smile did
not leave his features; but now he ceased to reply to the questions
of his friends. He also grew restless by degrees and no longer lay
still as before.

