After the sixteenth pipe Grenits complained of having to leave
off smoking while the pipe was being refilled. He grew fretful
and found fault with van Rheijn for not having supplied another
bedoedan, for then, he said, the experiment might have gone on without
interruption. Dr. Murowski observed that the pulse was at 72 and the
respiration at 28; that the conjunctiva was much bloodshot and the
eyelids heavy and drooping.

After the seventeenth pipe the smoker suddenly started up and attempted
to walk; but, after a few steps, fell down and was unable to rise. His
friends carried him back to the divan. He begged hard to be allowed to
go on smoking and, as the doctor declared there was no danger whatever,
the request was complied with.

The eighteenth pipe brought back the state of ecstasy which, for
awhile, seemed to have left the patient. Every now and then he opened
his eyes wide and seemed to follow some flying image.

With the twentieth pipe these symptoms merely increased, and when
Murowski asked him how he felt he replied:

"Oh! I feel so happy; I never felt anything like it before."

The doctor made the following note: Sclerotica much inflamed, pulse
70, respiration 25, temperature 100·04, satyriasis setting in. Upon
being asked if he wanted anything, he replied:

"I don't want anything--nothing at all--leave me alone. The pipe! give
me the pipe! that Edward, that Edward! does he want the thing to
fail altogether?"

The next instant he exclaimed: "Oh! if this be Mohammed's paradise,
let me go on smoking for ever! The pipe! the pipe!"

"Is it not high time," asked van Nerekool anxiously, "to put a stop to
this? The poor fellow will, I fear, do himself some serious mischief."

"No, no, no," cried the Pole. "Don't be alarmed, I answer for him,
there is not the slightest danger. His pulse is perfectly regular,
the breathing has quickened somewhat; but there is only a rise of
·3 in the temperature. It would be a pity not to go on now, this
experiment is most important to science."

