After the twenty-first pipe, Grenits seemed to lose all control over
himself. He lay still, almost motionless; but every word he uttered,
every look and every gesture betrayed what was passing within. This
continued until the twenty-fourth pipe had been smoked. Murowski then
again asked him how he felt, and he answered pretty quietly:

"Oh! I am at peace, at rest. Delightful! delightful!"

But this was far from satisfying our Pole. With his right forefinger
on the patient's pulse and his left hand spread out on his breast,
he kept on asking him again and again, "What kind of feeling is it?"

Theodoor, however, did not reply. By this time he was heaving and
panting with excitement. His arms and hands were stretched out
clutching convulsively at some phantom of his brain. His face wore
a look of unutterable bliss which filled the bystanders at once with
amazement and horror.

"Doctor, doctor!" muttered van Nerekool, "let us put an end to
this. Look at him, look at him. It is disgusting!"

But the Pole would not give in.

"There is no danger, none whatever!" he cried; "we must go on now,
we must go on!"

With the tough tenacity of the man of science bent upon fathoming
some natural phenomenon, he eagerly watched Theodoor's slightest
movement. He was desperately anxious to make the patient speak
out. "Grenits!" he cried, "Grenits, do you hear me; tell me, do you
hear me?"

Then he forced up the eyelids, and with his finger sharply filliped
his nose as he kept on crying, trembling with impatience: "Do you
hear me, Grenits, do you hear?"

Grenits muttered a few incoherent words as he restlessly tossed about
on the divan.

"Do you hear me?" persisted the doctor. "Tell me, can you understand?"

"Oh, yes, yes," at length muttered Grenits, "do leave me alone!"

In his eagerness the doctor bent over his patient, he did not for
an instant take his eyes from his face. Just then the friend was
transformed wholly into the man of science who, entirely mastered
by the passionate desire of unravelling some secret of nature, might
become capable of practising vivisection even upon his fellow-man.

