"Oh do tell me," passionately implored the doctor, "do tell me what
you feel!"

"What I feel?" muttered Theodoor vaguely. "Oh it is delightful,
delightful--more delicious than--"

"This is too bad!" shouted van Nerekool, "abominable! I can't stand
this any longer!" and, snatching the pipe out of Grenits' hand, he
stamped on it with his foot. Then he seized the box in which there
remained but a single pill of opium and violently flung it and its
contents out of the window.

"That's right, quite right!" cried Grashuis and van Beneden in
a breath.

"It is a pity, a thousand pities," complained Murowski.

But even he had very soon to change his tone, as the condition
of Grenits now began seriously to alarm even the medical man. The
smoker's pulse had fallen to 62, and his respiration to 24, while
the temperature had risen to 101·40.

Grenits moreover was now growing very restless, and was pouring
forth a torrent of libidinous and incoherent ejaculations. His eyes
were bloodshot, his face much swollen, his skin was hot and dry,
while the hands were damp with clammy sweat. Incessantly he kept
on clamouring for opium. "The pipe, give me the pipe! van Rheijn,
the pipe!" he almost yelled, and this amidst a string of loose and
frantic exclamations.

Murowski, now beginning to fear that the experiment might have been
carried too far, endeavoured to make him drink some of the strong
coffee which had been kept ready for the purpose, by pouring it down
his throat with a spoon. He bathed his head with iced water, and
every now and then, made him sniff strong smelling salts. Thus, with
considerable difficulty, the doctor at length succeeded in somewhat
quieting his patient. The coffee, especially, seemed to have a soothing
effect. At first Grenits violently resisted all attempts to make him
swallow it; but presently, of his own accord he began to ask for it,
and the beverage had the most sobering effect. Gradually the excitement
began to abate, the patient's voice became more natural and subdued,
and his utterances less wild. At length Grenits fell into a deep sleep.

