Murowski took out his pocket-book and wrote: Pulse 70, respiration 24,
temperature 100.

"Normal," said he with a sigh of relief, "quite normal! However, I
shall not leave him to-night." The gaoler was very easily persuaded to
allow the doctor to remain with his patient for that night, and Grenits
slept for thirty-three hours. When he at length awoke he found that,
with the exception of a feeling of exhaustion and a pretty severe
headache, he was none the worse of his opium-debauch. Even these
unpleasant sensations, however, left him as soon as he had taken a
bath, and then he became ravenously hungry so that his attendant had
some difficulty in serving him quickly and plentifully enough.

Three days after these events Murowski was on his way to his new
station. It was his intention to expand his notes into a full account
of what he had witnessed, and to send his paper on the effects of
opium smoking to one of the scientific publications in Germany.

The experiment in the prison at Santjoemeh had one good effect, at
least, upon those who were assembled to witness it: it served namely,
to confirm the opinions they already held with regard to the use of
opium. It would not be true to say that van Rheijn had ever stood up
as a defender of the use of the drug; yet he had always striven to
find some argument in palliation of the Government system; but now
even he was completely converted.

With poor Theodoor Grenits the events of that evening were, for a
long time, a very sore point; and he never could bear the slightest
allusion made to his antics while under the spell of the poppy-juice.

"May I be hanged!" he cried, "if ever again I touch a bedoedan,
however seductive and pleasant may be the images it calls up." And
then, turning to his friends, he said, "Gentlemen, I beg you will do
me the great favour of never, in the slightest manner, alluding to
the past; and," continued he enthusiastically, "let us now join hands
and solemnly declare war--war to the knife against the opium trade."

