






CHAPTER XXXIII.

IN THE PANDOPPO OF THE REGENT.


The day which followed the opium experiment described in the last
chapter, promised to be an interesting one to the inhabitants of
Santjoemeh. On that day, Setrosmito, the father of baboe Dalima,
who had for months been lying in gaol on a charge of having murdered
a Chinese bandoelan in the execution of his duty, and who had been
accused also of opium-smuggling, was to be brought to trial.

The evidence had already been taken, and the witnesses on both sides
had been examined. The prisoner confessed that he had, with his kris,
taken the Chinaman's life; but he stoutly denied that he had been
guilty of smuggling. All Santjoemeh had turned out, that is to say,
the whole European population; for it was known that August van
Beneden would conduct the defence. As our readers know, the young
lawyer had already appeared as counsel for baboe Dalima; but at her
trial he had merely watched the proceedings in behalf of his client,
and had no opportunity of showing his powers as an advocate. Thus the
speech he was expected to deliver in defence of Setrosmito, might be
looked upon as virtually his maiden-speech.

In social circles, however, and on several minor occasions, August van
Beneden had given evidence of much ability and considerable readiness
of speech, and thus the good people of Santjoemeh were looking forward
to the coming trial as to a rare intellectual treat.

But that was by no means all. It was further rumoured that the
unfortunate bandoelan had lost his life in consequence of his
misconduct towards the little daughter of the prisoner. Now, the
public at Santjoemeh knew pretty well what excesses the bandoelans
used frequently to permit themselves to take in these domiciliary
visits for opium; and thus expected that some spicy details would
be forthcoming at the trial. It was, moreover, confidently expected
that in his devotion to Themis, the young lawyer would lay his finger
heavily upon the crying abuses of the infamous opium traffic, that
plague-spot of Javanese society and that disgrace to the European
conquerors of the island.

