No wonder, therefore, that long before the time appointed for the
trial, the pandoppo of the Regent's house in which the court was
to sit, was crowded to its utmost capacity. Even ladies appeared
in the audience, and foremost among these was fair Laurentia van
Gulpendam. As a rule, no ladies ever appear at these native trials;
but, on this occasion, the full-flavoured particulars which were sure
to be revealed, might perhaps account for their presence.

At all events, the numerous staff of servants looked on in amazement at
this unusual concourse; for generally the public is, on such occasions,
conspicuous only by its absence. These attendants found it as much as
they could do to provide seats for all the company, and though there
always is an abundant supply of chairs in every Regent's house, yet on
this occasion, a sufficient number of seats could hardly be mustered.

Had it been evening, and had the numerous lamps which swung from the
roof of the pandoppo been alight, one might have imagined oneself
at some festive gathering, or rather, one might have thought, that
an exhibition of juggling or other such-like entertainment was about
to take place; for, at one extremity of the spacious hall, there was
a raised platform three steps above the level of the floor. On this
stage was seen a long table covered with a green baize cloth on which
were displayed a thick book and a number of 'pièces de conviction;'
and at which several chairs were placed in order. A police oppasser,
who, judging from his demeanour, was fully aware of the importance
of his office, was mounting guard at the table, evidently posted
there to keep the profane vulgar at a respectful distance. Had any
unruly spirit attempted to approach, he would no doubt, with a noble
flourish, have dragged the rusty bit of iron which he wore by his
side from its scabbard.

Pending the entrance of the judges, the crowd tried to pass the time
as agreeably as it could. Greetings were exchanged, jokes circulated
freely, the people laughed and chatted, and, in fact, behaved, in that
temple of Justice, precisely as they might have done at a music-hall
during the interval.

