"Good morning, Mrs. van Gulpendam, do you intend to be present at
our session?"

The speaker was Mr. Thomasz, deputy clerk of the court. He had
strolled in en amateur to have a look at the proceedings; for the
chief clerk himself was on that day to officiate, and Thomasz meant
to make the best of the opportunity thus offered him of paying his
court to fair Laurentia.

"Good morning," replied the Resident's wife as she held out her
hand. "Yes, I have come to have a look. I never have been present
at one of these trials, and am rather curious to see what they are
like. This case will be an interesting one, I think?"

"I think it will, madam," replied Thomasz; "but for my part, I consider
the examination of the witnesses much more entertaining."

"I daresay," said Laurentia; "but--that horrid murderer--they are
sure to find him guilty, are they not?"

"I am not so sure of that, madam."

"You are not? Why not?"

"No, indeed, I am not. The head djaksa has indeed got up a splendid
case for the prosecution, there is not a loop-hole in it; but ever
since our Residents and Assistant-Residents have ceased to preside,
and the duty has devolved upon professional lawyers, we seem to be be
under the influence of a kind of morbid philanthropy--and, it would
not at all surprise me if the scoundrel got clean off, especially--"

"Ah yes," exclaimed Laurentia, "I know what you would say: especially
since a European has undertaken the defence of that Javanese
scoundrel. It is perfectly unheard-of--monstrous! But, tell me,
who pays that counsel, do you know, Mr. Thomasz?"

"Hush! madam, that's a secret."

"A secret!" cried Laurentia, "you must keep no secrets from the wife
of your Resident. You seem to know all about it. Come tell me what
you know."

"Let us go on the platform then," said Thomasz with a faint smile,
"no one will be able to overhear us up there."

They walked up the steps, went to the table, and made a pretence
of examining the objects displayed upon it. The policeman on guard,
of course, took good care not to interfere with the njonja Resident
and the assistant registrar of the court.

