"Yes, dear madam, we call that the gollokh soempah."

"Indeed, and what may that mean?"

"We might translate it by the 'oath-knife,'" replied Thomasz; "it is,
in fact, with that instrument that the Chinese take an oath."

"That's interesting! did you ever see it done, Mr. Thomasz?"

"Oh yes, madam, very frequently."

"Do tell us all about it," cried Henriette, "how is it done?"

"It is as simple a ceremony as possible, ladies. The witness who
is about to be sworn, accompanied by a Chinese interpreter, and one
of the members of the court, walks up to a block of wood. Then the
gollokh is placed into his hand and with it he chops off the head
of a black chicken. Nothing more, and nothing less. It is an utterly
meaningless performance, and, at first sight, it is simply ludicrous."

"But why must the chicken be black, Mr. Thomasz?" asked Henriette.

"That is more than I can tell you, madam," replied he. "You are aware,
I suppose, that white is the mourning colour in China."

"Oh, yes, I know that; but--a black chicken? There must be some hidden
meaning in that," mused Henriette.

"There may be, madam," replied Thomasz; "but I have never been able
to discover any, though I have frequently asked interpreters and
even Chinese chiefs about it. There exists, however," he continued,
"in China another manner of taking an oath, the significance of which
is, perhaps, more obvious. But it is used only on special and very
important occasions."

"Can there be any question of greater moment," asked Henriette,
somewhat sharply, "than that of speaking the truth before a judge?"

"Certainly there may be, madam," was the reply.

"More important do you mean to tell me, than of giving solemn testimony
upon which may depend perhaps the life or death of a human being?"

"Undoubtedly, madam," said Thomasz.

"Well!" cried Henriette, "I should like to know what questions those
may be!"

"To give you only one instance," replied Thomasz, "the great oath,
the solemn oath which the Government requires to be taken when a man
is made a Chinese officer."

