"Indeed!" exclaimed Henriette with a laugh, "do you call that so very
serious a matter?"

"And then," continued the assistant clerk, "on certain occasions,
though rarely, the great oath is administered in civil cases, where
the interests involved are very considerable."

"Ah, now I understand you! When it is a question of £ s. d.," laughed
Henriette; "but, pray, tell us something about that great oath."

"With pleasure, madam, only I am afraid I do not know very much
about it. The rites observed on such occasions are borrowed from the
ceremony with which the oath is administered in China to princes and
high state officials on their appointment. I will, in as few words as
possible, try to describe to you what takes place. The witness first
writes down the evidence he intends to give or the promise he intends
to make, on a strip of red paper, and then he confirms the truth
of his words by calling down upon himself the most fearful curses
should his evidence prove untrue, or should he fail to carry out
his engagement. This strip of red paper the witness next carries to
the temple, and solemnly spreads it out upon the table of offerings,
between a number of burning candles, some bottles of wine and some
confectionery, which are destined to be gifts or offerings to the
idol. While this is going on the priests are screeching forth a
form of prayer, at certain passages of which a bell is violently
rung. Thereupon the witness, in a loud voice, reads out what he has
written on the paper, the priests the while burning incense. Finally,
the red paper is held to the flame of one of the candles, and,
having been thrown down on the table, is allowed to burn until it
is reduced to ashes. This concludes the ceremony. I know, ladies,
my description is most imperfect; but I hope that I have succeeded
in giving you some notion of this very curious solemnity."

"Much obliged to you, Mr. Thomasz," said Laurentia, holding out
her hand to him as, with haughty glance, she surveyed the company
assembled in the pandoppo.

