"I wonder whom she is looking for?" whispered one of the young men
in the body of the hall.

"Not for me I fear," sighed another, "perhaps--"

"The gentlemen of the court!" bawled a police oppasser, much in the
tone of a French huissier when he shouts, "La cour, messieurs!"

The name of the individual who was supposed to be the object of
Laurentia's solicitude remained unspoken.

Just then, out of one of the side buildings which could be seen
from the pandoppo through the intervals between the blinds, there
appeared two European gentlemen, two Javanese chiefs and two Chinese
officers. These formed a kind of procession and slowly marched towards
the pandoppo. Having entered the hall they ascended the platform,
and took their seats at the table, on the chairs placed ready for them.

At the head of the procession walked Mr. Greveland, the successor
of Mr. Zuidhoorn and president of the court. After him, came Radhen
Mas Toemenggoeng Pringgoe Kesoemo, regent of Santjoemeh; Radhen
Pandjie Merto Winoto the patih, and babah Tang Ing Gwam the Chinese
major--these three were members of the native Council. Then followed
Mas Wirio Kesoemo the head djaksa, and behind him came the clerk of
the court, while Hadjie Moehammad Kassan, the panghoeloe or native
priest, closed the procession.

The president was in his judicial robes of office, while the clerk
of the court appeared in black frock-coat and white trousers. The
Javanese members wore, of course, the national costume, which consisted
of a short jacket with stiff gold-embroidered collar over a similarly
embroidered vest, with the finely stitched sarong wrapped in neat and
narrow plaits round the waist. On their heads they wore the ordinary
scarf; but in addition to this they also wore the kopja, an ugly and
shapeless head-gear, looking like a bit of stove-pipe ornamented with
narrow gold lace.

The Chinese major was in full Mandarin's dress, the most conspicuous
part of his attire being a kind of tabard of light blue cloth,
on which, in front and behind, were richly embroidered in gold a
pair of monstrous dragons. His head was covered with a stiff cap of
light blue cloth. This cap had a somewhat high crown, on the top of
which, surmounting a little tuft or tassel, shone a large blue gem
of extraordinary lustre.

