The panghoeloe was clad in a sombre-looking cassock reaching down to
his heels. He was remarkable chiefly by a turban of prodigious size,
which, by its magnitude and colour, proclaimed that the man had visited
the tomb of the prophet and was therefore a Hadjie or pilgrim. In
his hand he held a book which looked much worn and soiled. This was
the sacred book--the Koran.

On the steps leading to the platform were seated several Javanese
youths dressed in the national costume but without the kopja. These
were the mantries, generally young men of good family, and even of
noble birth, who were present to listen to the proceedings, and thus
to qualify themselves for future appointments. They sat on the steps
with their legs crossed before them, and each had on his knees a
writing tablet, on which he was prepared to jot down whatever remarks
he might consider valuable enough to be thus rescued from oblivion.

Mr. Greveland took the chair at the middle of the oblong table. On
his right hand sat the regent and on his left the clerk of the
court. Next to the regent sat the djaksa and on his right again sat
the panghoeloe. The clerk of the court had on his left the patih,
and after him came the Chinese major. All these places were allotted
to their several occupants, in accordance with the rules of the
strictest etiquette, to which Eastern nations always attach the
utmost importance.

Just after the president had taken his seat, August van Beneden
made his appearance in his barrister's gown; and, by the chairman's
direction, sat down at the end of the table by the side of the
Chinese major. At that moment the pandoppo of the regent's house
offered an interesting and most curious spectacle. It was a wide
roomy shed the lofty roof of which was supported by eight pillars,
and completely open on all sides. In order to temper the glare of the
sunlight, and also to exclude the prying looks of the public outside,
the spaces between the pillars were hung with green kreés or mats,
while the members of the court had the further protection of a canvas
screen stretched behind them. Behind the judges some Javanese servants
were squatting. These men bore the pajoengs of the Javanese chiefs,
and though these umbrellas were closed, yet their bearers held them
aloft in such a manner that they could plainly be seen behind the backs
of their masters. As the native court was then sitting; and taken as
typical of the entire judicial system as regards the native inhabitants
of the island of Java, it presented a strange combination of those
three leading principles which the Dutch Government has, sometimes
in greater sometimes in lesser degree, but always very cleverly,
managed to unite. First there was the European law represented by
the person of the President; in the next place the native usage was
respected which demands that both the judges shall be Javanese chiefs
or nobles of the highest rank; and in the third place there was the
Mohammedan law represented by the panghoeloe whose office it was to
enforce due respect for the injunctions of the Koran.

