Between the platform and the first row of chairs there was a
considerable open space which, however, was not protected by any
kind of railing. To the right and left of the platform stood a pair
of native police oppassers in their bright yellow uniform and with
side-arms dangling from bright yellow belts. The poor fellows cut a
sorry figure as they stood there, they were quite taken aback at the
sight of so large a crowd.

Fair Laurentia had taken her seat on the middle chair of the first
row. As njonja Resident this place of honour belonged to her, and
by her side she had placed two of her most intimate friends. Close
around these clustered the most fashionable and important inhabitants
of Santjoemeh, or such as considered themselves the most important;
and behind these again came the miscellaneous crowd which filled the
pandoppo from end to end. The conversation, however, now that the
judges had entered, was carried on in whispers or in a low undertone.

Edward van Rheijn, Charles van Nerekool and Leendert Grashuis,
we hardly need say, were present in the third or fourth row of
chairs among a number of their young friends and acquaintances--the
jeunesse dorée of Santjoemeh. Thus they had an excellent view of
the proceedings.

"Look at that Thomasz," said van Rheijn, "what an ass the fellow is
making of himself with Laurentia!"

"Yes, yes," quoth Grashuis, "he is making hay while the sun shines."

"I don't know so much about that," remarked one of the young men
present, "it seems to me that just now he is pretty well at home at
the Residence."

"There are very queer rumours afloat about him," whispered another.

"Rumours!" said van Rheijn testily, "why, in Santjoemeh, the air
is always full of rumours. What would Santjoemeh be without its
chronique scandaleuse?"

"If people will behave themselves in that way!"

"Yes, and if appearances are all against them!"

"Indeed," said van Rheijn tartly, "am I to suppose that, where a
woman's good name is concerned, you would go by appearances?"

