"They say that M`Bok Kârijâh has been employed."

"Oh! if that filthy hag has a finger in the pie, then--"

"They say!" exclaimed van Rheijn contemptuously, "they say!--and pray
who are they?"

"Well--everybody--"

"At all events I am not one of them," replied van Rheijn.

"No more am I," added Grashuis.

"Hush," whispered van Rheijn, "I am sure Laurentia can hear all we say;
just look how she pricks her ears."

"How very dignified van Beneden looks in his gown," said Grashuis
anxious to change the subject and slightly raising his voice.

"I don't see it," returned van Rheijn; "he looks for all the world
like an umbrella in its case."

At that moment fair Laurentia turned and cast her eye over the group
of young gentlemen seated behind her. They all greeted and bowed. Van
Rheijn, however, had a gracious smile all to himself--it might have
been perhaps in acknowledgment of his comparison of van Beneden with
the umbrella.

"Oh, you sly fox," whispered one with a nudge, "that is why you took
me up so sharply just now? eh?"

"Do shut up!" said van Rheijn, "I wonder you are not ashamed of
yourself for talking such nonsense!"

"Have you received an invitation yet?" asked Grashuis, wishing to
turn the conversation into another channel.

"What invitation?"

"To Lim Ho's wedding party."

"Yes, I got one the other day," said one.

"And so have I," said another.

"That is a curious custom," remarked van Nerekool, "for the bridegroom
to give the wedding party."

"Yes," added another, "it is so totally different from what one sees
among Western people."

"Different!" exclaimed van Rheijn, "of course it is--it is quite
consistent with everything else in China. With them everything
is upside down. Their mourning colour is white and blue is
half-mourning. Their ladies wear trousers and the men carry fans. Such
things as knives, spoons and forks they leave to us barbarians, while
they manage very cleverly to whisk down their food with a pair of
chop-sticks. They hold that descendants can ennoble their ancestors
so that one may become a count or a baron after one's death. They
pay their doctors so long as they keep well; but the moment they fall
sick they stop payment. What can you expect from such people--? surely
you may let them hold their wedding feast at the bridegroom's house
instead of the bride's!"

