A general laugh greeted this whimsical sally which had by no means been
uttered in an undertone. Mrs. van Gulpendam joined in the merriment
and rewarded the speaker with another friendly nod.

"You see! you lucky dog! you are decidedly in her good books."

"Hush, gentlemen! here comes the murderer."

"What? unfettered?"

"Yes, the law demands that an accused man shall appear free and
unfettered before his judges."

"But it does not forbid a couple of constables to stick close to
his elbow."

"Hush!"

Mr. Greveland had repeatedly struck the table with his wooden hammer.

"Usher," he said at length with much dignity, "you must see that
silence is kept in court."

The man thus addressed was a sjenjo or half-caste--he rushed up and
down the pandoppo in frantic endeavours to enforce the order he had
received, "Hush, hush, silence! Silence, ladies and gentlemen!" he
bawled at the top of his voice, thus making more noise than all the
company put together.

Again the hammer came down, and the president himself called:
"Silence."

"Silence!" shouted the usher imploringly, as he stretched out his arms
and looked as if he were going to swim, or was trying to lay a tempest.

At length he succeeded in controlling those unruly tongues. One of
the very last to give way was Laurentia--"who had a right to interfere
with her--the Resident's wife? Those gentlemen on the bench are always
giving themselves such airs!"

Presently, however, even her chatter ceased. Once again the president
brought down his hammer.

"The session is opened," said he; "constables bring the prisoner
forward!"

One of the oppassers hereupon drew Setrosmito to the foot of the
steps and made him squat down in front of the table. The poor fellow
looked a wretched object indeed. The months he had passed in prison
had effectually done their work upon him. He was frightfully lean, and
the warm brown colour of his skin had turned a dusky grey. His long
lank hair, which here and there straggled from under his head-dress,
had turned grey--nay white. As he advanced he looked timidly around
him, he cast one imploring glance at van Beneden, who gave him a
friendly nod and a smile of encouragement, and then, submissively,
he squatted down in the spot to which the policeman pointed.

