"Setrosmito," continued the president, "do you know why you have been
brought here before us?"

"Yes, kandjeng toean."

"Let us hear it then."

"They tell me I have smuggled opium, and that I have killed a
Chinaman," quietly replied the Javanese, without so much as raising
his eyes from the floor.

A murmur of indignation ran through the pandoppo at the apparent
callousness of the reply.

"Silence!" cried the president.

"Silence in the court!" vociferated the usher.

"Do you plead guilty to these charges?" asked Mr. Greveland.

The djaksa interpreted the question; but the prisoner hesitated--he
seemed not to know what he ought to say. He cast a furtive sidelong
glance at August van Beneden, who reassured him by saying:

"Speak up, Setrosmito, speak up, tell the simple truth."

"No, kandjeng toean," said he, "I am not guilty of smuggling. I never
touch the bedoedan. I have killed a Chinaman because he ill-treated
my child."

The Javanese spoke in a very low tone of voice--he was abashed before
that large audience and before his chiefs. He spoke moreover in
the Javanese tongue, which hardly any one present could understand,
so that his answer produced no impression whatever.

"Now, listen attentively, Setrosmito," said the president. "The charges
against you, your own statements, and the evidence of the witnesses,
will be read out to you."

"Yes, kandjeng toean."

Thereupon the clerk of the court rose, and in the sing-song monotonous
tone of voice peculiar to his class, began to read all the depositions
and the whole body of evidence which the preliminary examinations had
produced. He read very fast, very indistinctly, and in so low a tone
of voice that not a soul in the pandoppo, not even the president
himself, who was seated close beside him, could understand what
he said. The prisoner, of course, could not catch a single word;
for the papers were all drawn up in Malay, a language of which the
simple dessa-labourer knows little or nothing. From time to time
this dreamy flow of words was interrupted by the djaksa, whose duty
it was to translate to the prisoner the more important parts of the
case. But even the interpretation was got through at such a pace that
it was very doubtful whether the prisoner was any the wiser for the
djaksa's translation.

