He sat squatting on the floor without changing his attitude, and
kept his eyes rivetted on one spot; his hands, fumbling the while
at the skirts of his jacket, betrayed his extreme agitation. At
every explanation of the djaksa, whether he understood it or not,
he mumbled the invariable Javanese answer:

"Yes, kandjeng toean."

This reading of the evidence was a most dreary and tedious
business. Even the members of the council at the table kept up
a whispered conversation, which the president had repeatedly to
interrupt with an impatient gesture and a stern look of displeasure.

The audience, however, did not confine themselves to mere whispers. No
one spoke out aloud; but gradually there arose a humming and
buzzing--an indescribable rumour, broken now and again by some lady's
giggle--which sadly interfered with the majesty of the law.

In vain did the usher exert the full power of his lungs. His shout of
"silence" produced its effect for the moment; but it was only for
the moment. The instant after the universal buzzing began again as
if a huge swarm of bees had taken possession of the pandoppo.

"What an insufferable bore that clerk is to be sure!" simpered
Mrs. van Gulpendam.

"He leaves the reading to his nose," remarked Mr. Thomasz.

"Mind your chief does not hear you," said one of the ladies.

"Pray don't tell him!" cried Thomasz, "he does not know he talks
through his gable--if he did, he might try and improve."

"Be quiet, Mr. Thomasz," said Laurentia, with a burst of laughter,
"you really must not make us laugh so."

"What? I, madam?" asked the clerk.

"You? Of course. The Resident calls you a dry comical fellow."

"How, madam, do you mean to say the Resident applies such terms to me?"

"Yes, he does--don't you like them?"

"Madam," replied the assistant-clerk, "professionally I cannot say
that I do. Just fancy, ladies," he continued, turning to the others,
"a comical clerk, who ever heard of such a thing?"

He uttered these words with a serio-comic air, so irresistibly droll,
that the ladies fairly shook with suppressed laughter.

