"Oh--do hold your tongue, Mr. Thomasz!" Laurentia at length managed
to say, "you see how savagely Mr. Greveland is glaring at you."

"What a time that mumbler takes to be sure!" said a voice almost
aloud in the centre of the pandoppo.

"If one might only light a cigar to while away the time," said another.

"Or get a glass of bitters!"

"I was asking an oppasser just now to fetch me a glass of beer--my
throat is as dry as a lime-kiln," said another voice in an audible
whisper.

"Well--and did you get it?"

"Don't I wish I may get it? 'Not allowed, sir,' was all I could
get out of that canary-bird, who looked as black as a three days'
west monsoon."

"Shall we go to the club, it is close by?" asked another.

"Yes, if I thought that muttering would last much longer."

"Silence! silence!" shouted the usher, "respect for the court!"

That respect for the court was all very well; but the good people of
Santjoemeh had gathered together for the sake of amusement, and they
were being bored almost to death.

At length the clerk had got to the end of his dreary tale--at
length the djaksa had, for the last time, said to the prisoner:
"Do you understand, Setrosmito?" And at length, for the last time,
the latter had replied in his monotonous drone the same words:

"Yes, kandjeng toean."

Then came the usual shuffling of feet and a general murmur of
satisfaction which, however, the usher soon managed to subdue.

As soon as silence had been restored, the head djaksa rose from his
chair and, in his capacity of public prosecutor, he began to open
the case for the Government.

His speech was remarkably well put together, and worked out with much
skill and care; but it could have an interest only for those who knew
nothing of the other side of the case.

It was, in fact, little more than a statement of what had occurred,
strictly on the lines of the report of the bandoelan Singomengolo.

The public prosecutor took the case of opium smuggling as conclusively
proved. He dwelt at great length upon the cunning displayed in
hiding the forbidden wares under the pandan-mat of the couch--the
opium itself and the box which had contained it lay before him on
the table as convincing proofs of the truth of what he advanced.

