Then, in very forcible words, he went on to dilate upon the craftiness
of these opium smugglers; and tried to show how, in their endeavours
to cheat the revenue, they gave evidence of much cleverness; but
generally over-reached themselves and proved, by the tricks they
employed, their utter want of honesty and moral sense.

Mas Wirio Kesoemo waxed well-nigh eloquent when he pointed out how
the passion for opium was, hand over hand, gaining ground in Java;
and how this debasing passion was promoted and fostered chiefly by
the abominable smuggling trade. He dwelt, in glowing terms, upon the
absolute necessity of repressing, by every means the law would allow,
that dirty underhand traffic which was the fruitful source of so
much misery.

"Picture to yourselves," he cried, "the amount of injury which this
nefarious trade is inflicting upon the realm beyond the ocean, upon
all India, and especially upon our own beloved island of Java. Think
of the millions which are lost--the millions!--I might say the tens
of millions, and then calculate the amount of good which these tens
of millions might produce if they were allowed to flow quietly and
without check into the national treasury!"

At these words the djaksa, who up to that time had been addressing
the members of the council, turned to the public, knowing well that
this argumentum ad crumenam would tickle the public ear. And he was
not mistaken. The audience consisted for the most part of Dutchmen,
and the tinkle of these tens of millions had a metallic sound which was
strangely fascinating to the hearers. A distinct murmur of approbation
arose, many a head nodded in silent assent and many a voice muttered:

"Hear, hear! If we could but be delivered from that abominable
smuggling!"

These evident tokens of sympathy did not escape the djaksa's watchful
eye, and Mas Wirio Kesoemo did not let so favourable an opportunity
pass without expressing the fervent hope that the judges would not
fail, by their sentence in the present case, to crush the foul reptile
which battened upon the national prosperity. He called upon them,
therefore, to pass upon the prisoner, who not only sat there accused
of the heinous crime of smuggling; but was charged also with the
additional offence of murder, the heaviest sentence which the law
would allow. By doing so, he added, they would earn for themselves
the cordial thanks of the island of Java, and establish a claim upon
the gratitude of the entire Dutch nation.

