For a moment it seemed as if the greater part of the company
assembled in the pandoppo, would have given vent to their feelings of
satisfaction by cheering and clapping of hands--one cry of "bravo!" was
distinctly heard; but the usher repressed all such manifestations
with his repeated shout of "Silence--silence in the court!"

The head djaksa now proceeded with the second part of his case against
Setrosmito, that, namely, of having murdered a Chinese bandoelan;
a charge which was inseparably connected with the former one of
opium smuggling.

The entire assembly hung breathless on his lips, as he described
how Setrosmito had resisted the searching of his house; how, when
the fatal box had been discovered, he had hurled an opprobrious name
at Singomengolo and called him a "dirty dog;" how he had, thereupon,
seized his kris and how, when the chief bandoelan fled back in terror,
he had flung himself upon an inoffensive and defenceless Chinaman,
and had drawn the wavy blade of his knife across his throat, while a
stream of blood deluged murderer and victim alike. This description,
graphic almost to brutality in its details, made a powerful impression
upon the audience. One of the ladies present screamed and fainted away,
and had to be carried off insensible. This episode caused considerable
commotion, and Setrosmito cast an anxious glance behind him to see
what was going on.

"Silence! silence!" bawled the usher.

As soon as order had been, in some measure, restored, Mas Wirio Kesoemo
proceeded to dwell on the increasing temerity of the opium smugglers,
who scrupled not to take a human life rather than risk the loss of
their smuggled wares. He insisted upon the necessity of inflicting the
extreme penalty for the protection of the police in the execution of
their arduous duties; and he ended his speech by demanding that the
murderer be condemned to death by hanging, or, if the defence could
establish any extenuating circumstances, that the sentence should be
at least twenty years of penal servitude with hard labour.

