A deep silence reigned in the pandoppo as the djaksa resumed his seat,
one might have heard a pin drop, so intensely was that frivolous
crowd impressed by this fearful demand for a human life. A kind of
spell lay upon all, every heart seemed compressed as in a vice. A
general sigh of relief was heard when the president broke the silence:

"Setrosmito," asked Mr. Greveland, "have you heard what the public
prosecutor has said?"

The prisoner looked up with a puzzled expression at the speaker;
but he did not answer a word. The entire case had been conducted in
Malay, of which he did not understand a single word. The expression
of the poor fellow's face showed that plainly enough. The president
repeated his question, which the djaksa, thereupon, interpreted
to Setrosmito. The prisoner cast one look upon August van Beneden,
and upon a nod from the latter, answered:

"Yes, kandjeng toean."

"Have you anything to say in reply?" asked the president.

Another look at his counsel, and then the prisoner answered:

"No, kandjeng toean."

A cry of indignation and horror arose in the pandoppo at the seeming
callousness of the answer.

"Silence, gentlemen! Silence in the court!" shouted the usher.

As soon as he could make himself heard, Mr. Greveland said:

"I call upon the counsel for the defence."

"At length!" muttered Grashuis, with a deep sigh.

"Now we shall hear something very fine!" cried Mrs. van Gulpendam,
with a sneer; but in a voice quite loud enough to reach the young
lawyer's ears.

Van Beneden very calmly rose from his chair, wiped his forehead,
and then, in a clear voice which could distinctly be heard through
the entire pandoppo, he said:

"The trial which is now occupying the attention of this honourable
court is one which is indigenous to the soil of Java. I might
say, indeed, that in no other spot in the world could such a case
arise. There can be nothing simpler, nothing more plain than the
demand of the prosecution! Opium has been smuggled, some one must be
punished for it. A man has lost his life, some one must hang for the
murder. Undoubtedly the law must have its course, and the criminal
ought to be punished. We are living here in the East, in the home of
the law of retaliation--an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth! This,
gentlemen, is a hard law unworthy of our Western civilisation;
but against it we have the right of inquiry, and our milder code
allows every accused man the right of defence. It is of this right
of defence, that, in behalf of the unhappy man sitting there at your
feet and awaiting his fate at your hands, I now intend to avail myself.

