"Now, if the facts were really such as the prosecution has represented
them to be--why then there would be nothing for me to do than to
commend the prisoner to the clemency of the court, or rather I should
say, that I would not, in that case, have undertaken at all the defence
of a cause which my conscience could not justify. I take, therefore,
a totally different view of the matter; and am prepared to lay before
you the grounds upon which I have arrived at a wholly different
conclusion. I beg that you will lend me your attentive hearing.

"But, before entering into the details of this case," continued
the young lawyer, in a voice which clearly betrayed emotion, "allow
me to pay my tribute to the zeal, the devotion, and the undoubted
ability of a man concerning whom I must not speak without reticence,
inasmuch as I am bound to him in the straitest bond of friendship.

"Mr. William Verstork was controller of the district of Banjoe Pahit
when the facts occurred which now claim our attention. Independently
altogether of the action of the Government, he undertook the task of
continuing the investigations which he had initiated. The result of his
inquiry he has submitted to the proper authorities. I ask, why were not
these papers laid before us? Allow me, gentlemen, to pass very lightly
over this most important omission. I could not enter into that subject
without stirring up a pool of iniquity which is immediately connected
with the opium question; and I freely confess that I shrink from thus
occupying your valuable time. For the defence of the unhappy man for
whose interests I am responsible, it will suffice if I now tell you
that the documents to which I allude exist beyond the possibility of
doubt or denial; and that I have here, lying on the table before me,
the authentic copies properly attested and legalised by the Governor
of Atjeh and by the Chief Justice at Batavia.

"You all," continued van Beneden with a courteous gesture, addressing
the public as well as the bench, "you all know William Verstork, and
I would not even mention the noble qualities of that zealous public
servant--there would be no need of doing so--were it not that our
president, Mr. Greveland, has but lately arrived at Santjoemeh. The
interests of my client demand that I should clearly point out to him
that the writer of these documents is universally known as an upright
man, who, in his official capacity, has won for himself the esteem
and affection of all, natives as well as Europeans, that have come
into contact with him. That he is a most dutiful son who, for the
sake of his mother and his younger sisters and brothers, has made the
greatest sacrifices; and that, before this large audience I assert,
without the slightest fear of contradiction, that a more single-minded
and honourable man has never trodden the soil of Netherland's India."

