A burst of applause, cheering and clapping of hands followed
immediately upon this general appeal. Mrs. van Gulpendam sat gnawing
her lips with suppressed rage, while the noise drove the usher to
the verge of frenzy.

At length, by dint of much hammering, Mr. Greveland obtained silence,
he rose and said:

"Much as I appreciate this tribute of affection, this spontaneous
testimony to the merits of a distinguished public servant; yet I
must warn the public against such demonstrations either of approval
or disapproval. Should they be repeated it will be my duty at once
to clear the court. Mr. van Beneden, I beg you to proceed."

August had made the most of this interruption, he had wiped his
forehead and refreshed himself with a draught of iced water. He
continued:

"After the fatal evening, William Verstork repeatedly visited
Kaligaweh. He thought he thoroughly knew Setrosmito and remembered
the well known lines of Racine:


'Un jour ne fait point d'un mortel vertueux
Un perfide assassin, un lâche meurtrier.'


But, for all that he determined to sift the case to the very
bottom. He made minute inquiries on all sides, and, as the result
of his investigation, he found that the man who is now sitting there
before you crushed under the load of so terrible an accusation, has
ever been an irreproachable husband, a tender and devoted father,
an industrious hard-working labourer--that he is, in fact, one of
those quiet and submissive villagers of which our Javanese population
is chiefly composed, and which make it possible for an entire race,
which may well be called the quietest and meekest on earth, to submit
to the cruel fiscal yoke we have imposed upon it. I have here, lying
on this table before me, the sworn testimony of the wedono of the
district of Banjoe Pahit. He states that on a certain occasion, when
a loerah had to be appointed for the dessa Kaligaweh, the man most
eligible for the post was this same Setrosmito, especially because
he was known never to touch opium; but that he could not recommend
him for the appointment, because the man could neither read nor write.

