"Now, gentlemen, I ask you, how comes it to pass that a man bearing
so excellent a character should be brought up here before you as
an opium smuggler and a murderer? An opium smuggler! At those words
your very looks betray what is passing in your minds. You know well
enough what is going on in this residence of Santjoemeh. You turn away
in disgust at the mere mention of the word 'opium smuggler!' But,
let me ask you, upon what grounds has the prosecution founded this
most serious charge? Why, upon no grounds whatever! The prosecution
has not even attempted to bring forth any proof of the prisoner's
guilt. Their case rests entirely upon the unsupported word of one
of the opium farmer's bandoelans--upon the bare assertion of a vile
wretch whom public opinion holds up to public execration as capable
of the lowest and most infamous perjury. Yes, gentlemen, I repeat it
most emphatically, this charge rests upon nothing whatever but upon
the bare word of Singomengolo, and upon that little box which lies
there in evidence before you on this table.

"But, you all must remember, it is not so very long ago, that, on this
very same table, we had before us a number of those little boxes,
all of them the property of that same bandoelan; and that, on that
occasion, you had to acquit the daughter of the prisoner who was also
charged with smuggling; who was charged with smuggling, mind, by that
same Singomengolo. And how did he attempt to prove that charge? Why,
by swearing that he had seized upon her person a box precisely similar
to that which you now see before you. Again I ask you, what proofs have
we that this box was discovered under the pandan-mat of the couch in
Setrosmito's dwelling? We have none! You hear me, I repeat that word,
we have absolutely no proof of the truth of that bare assertion. But,
on the contrary, for the defence, I have the clearest possible proofs
that it never was there at all. We rely on proofs which are absolutely
incontrovertible. And here, gentlemen, allow me once again to turn
to the sworn evidence of my friend William Verstork.

