"Opium smuggler! Yes, the prosecution has dwelt at considerable
length and with considerable eloquence upon the millions, the tens
of millions, of which this illegal traffic is robbing the public
exchequer.

"As the Public Prosecutor made his fervent appeal, every heart was
thrilling with emotion, though it may not perhaps have been of a
very noble kind. And, gentlemen, he was perfectly right. Millions,
yea tens of millions are lost to the revenue! But they are not lost
in the manner the prosecution has so graphically described; they are
not conveyed away in little boxes which hold but a minute quantity
of the drug. The millions of which we heard so much just now--Ah,
gentlemen! need I tell you who are the men that thus defraud the
revenue? Why your own hearts have already pronounced their names,
they are trembling now on your very lips. Those smugglers are not poor
dessa-folk, they flaunt their ill-gotten wealth boldly in the face of
our good people of Santjoemeh; and can afford to keep Singomengolos
to remove out of their path any unfortunate creature who may stand in
their way. Shall I mention these names which are even now on every
lip? Why should I do so? An Attorney General once ventured to lay
his finger on the plague-spot and to denounce these criminals to
the Governor General. What did he gain by it? That is the question
I would ask you?"

The young barrister here paused for a few moments, to allow these last
words, which he had driven home like a wedge, time to sink into the
hearts of his hearers. In the pandoppo the deepest silence reigned. The
assembled crowd sat breathless listening to every word as it fell from
van Beneden's lips. On all those faces there was but one expression,
and it said plainly enough "Aye truly! that is the state of things
which the accursed opium-monopoly has created in this island." After
a short pause, August continued:

"I now pass on to the second and far more terrible charge which has
been brought against my client. Shall I be able to purge him of that
accusation as I know that I have cleared him of the former? Here there
is no question of denial. The facts are all plain enough and are all
frankly admitted. The fatal deed has been done, the grave has closed
over the ill-starred victim; and the weapon, the kris with which the
fatal wound was inflicted, lies there before you on the table.

