"The prosecution has given us a shockingly graphic description of
the terrible occurrence, and has painted, in the most vivid colours,
the manner in which that kris was slashed across the throat of the
unhappy bandoelan. It is not difficult to see why so much stress was
laid upon the bloody scene, and why we had the loathsome details so
forcibly placed before us. But yet, gentlemen, I venture to think,
that the cause of my client has been benefited rather than damaged by
this vivid word-painting. For the more painful the impression produced,
the more forcibly must the question arise: 'How was it possible that
a creature of so quiet and meek a nature could have been goaded to
a deed of such unbridled fury?' Again I appeal to the testimony of
William Verstork, and I think it well to tell you that I also have
personally and independently made a careful investigation into all the
facts of this most painful case; and the results of my personal inquiry
I will proceed to lay before you. Yes, gentlemen, I also shall have to
be graphic and realistic; but remember that I am merely following the
example set me by the prosecution. Yes, gentlemen, I also shall have
to enter into harrowing and revolting details; but I shall do so only
because the cause for which I am pleading compels me to that course."

And now the young lawyer displayed a power of eloquence such as had
never before been heard in Santjoemeh--never perhaps in all Dutch
India. He made use of words not only but also of gestures. He "acted"
as Mrs. van Gulpendam spitefully remarked to one of her friends.

Yes, he did enact before his spell-bound audience that tragic scene,
building up the entire drama, as Cuvier out of a single bone would
construct the entire skeleton of some antediluvian monster. He made
them see how the opium-hunters penetrated that peaceful dwelling. He
made them hear how Singomengolo haughtily refused to submit to any
examination. One could behold as it were the ruthless ransacking of
all the poor furniture, one could hear the children crying and wailing
at the licentious conduct of the ruffians who had respect neither
for age nor sex. The entire audience shuddered at the "Allah Tobat,"
the frenzied cry of the desperate mother, and one could see also how,
at his wife's bitter cry, Setrosmito's eye had, for a single instant,
glanced away from Singomengolo, and how the latter had profited by
that instant of distraction to draw forth the box of opium with a
gesture of insolent triumph. How rage and indignation wrung from the
unhappy father an abusive epithet which was answered immediately
by a blow in the mouth. How, stung to madness at that insult,
Setrosmito grasped his kris; how at that fatal moment the cry of
little Kembang had drawn the attention of the father to his poor
little girl; how he had seen her exposed to the hideous outrages of
the Chinese bandoelan. All these events the eloquence of the advocate
conjured up, as it were, before the eyes of his hearers. At the words,
"Let go!" uttered with incomparable energy, the audience seemed to
see the father flinging himself upon the astonished bandoelan, who,
dazed by the very imminence of peril, had not sufficient presence of
mind to desist from his outrageous conduct, and thereupon resounded
the terrible words, "Die then like a dog!" in a tone which filled
the entire pandoppo with shuddering horror.

