The prosecution was crushed, utterly annihilated. Feeling that his
cause was lost, the djaksa attempted to have the trial adjourned;
but Mr. Greveland saw plainly enough how very undesirable such an
adjournment would be; and he wisely refused to grant it.

Thus compelled there and then to get up and reply, Mas Wirio Kesoemo
could not rise to the level of his subject. He mumbled a few words
which did not awaken the slightest attention--he said something
about the necessity of vindicating the action of the police, he
uttered a few incoherent sentences, he stammered, he drawled, he
repeated himself over and over again, and finally sat down without
having produced any impression whatever. As soon as he had ended,
the president called upon the defence to exercise its right of reply.

With a gesture of lofty disdain, van Beneden refused to avail himself
of his privilege:

"No, no, Mr. President," he said, "anything I could now add would but
lessen the impression made by the prosecution. It is to the weakness
of the charge brought against him, rather than to the power of the
defence, that my client must owe his acquittal."

After a moment's pause the president turned to the panghoeloe and
asked him what law the sacred book prescribed.

In a sleepy tone of voice the latter replied, "An eye for an eye,
a tooth for a tooth--the man has taken a life--the man must die."

A shriek resounded in the pandoppo, a Javanese woman had fainted away.

The members of the council thereupon retired to their consulting
room. After a while they returned into court and the clerk proceeded
to read out an elaborate judgment, wherein, after a number of "seeing
thats" and "whereases," the verdict of "Not Guilty" on both counts was
at length pronounced. Then the real storm broke loose. A great number
of the audience rushed up to van Beneden and warmly congratulated him
on the victory he had just gained. The president, far from trying to
repress the general enthusiasm, now cordially joined in it. August
raised Setrosmito from the floor and whispered some words in his ear
which were immediately afterwards affirmed by the Regent himself.

