The poor Javanese cast one single look at his young champion, he
pressed his hand to his heart and uttered a few incoherent words. But
that one look was sufficient for van Beneden, it was the overflowing
of a grateful heart. At the very bottom of the pandoppo one solitary
voice cried out:

"Great is the justice of the whites!"

A few moments after, the pandoppo was deserted. Said Grashuis to
his friend as he was walking home with him: "By Jove, old fellow,
you have knocked the wind clean out of me--I am still under the
spell. That is natural enough; but what I want to know is how you
managed to get the native chiefs on your side?"

"Very simply indeed," replied the other, "I called upon them yesterday
and read my speech to them in Malay."

"Come, come, that's cute!" laughed Grashuis. The young lawyer, however,
did not tell his friend that, at the conclusion of that visit, the
old Regent of Santjoemeh had pressed his hand and whispered to him:

"You are a noble fellow!"








CHAPTER XXXV.

A MEETING IN THE KARANG BOLLONG MOUNTAINS.


On the western slope of the Goenoeng Poleng--that mighty mass of
rock which forms the nucleus, as it were, of the Karang Bollong range
running along the South Coast of Java, and not far from the dessa Ajo
there stood a modest little hut. To the traveller approaching from
the North or from the South, it was completely hidden by the walls
of rock which towered around it. Steeply rising ground but scantily
covered with thin grass and prickly shrubs, shut out all view from
the back of the little cabin. From either side also nothing could
be seen but the rocky slopes, with here and there a small patch of
arable ground. But the front of the hut offered a prospect which,
for loveliness and variety, could hardly be equalled, certainly not
surpassed; and which amply made up for the dreariness of the view on
the other sides.

From the small front gallery or verandah the incline ran down pretty
swiftly, and displayed to the eye a panorama which might in truth
be called magnificent. Immediately beneath this verandah lay the
mountain-slope; at first bald and bare, with huge weather-worn boulders
scattered about here and there, and a few stunted shrubs. Between these
a narrow pathway ran winding down. In its tortuous course it seemed to
rival the brook, as, twisting and bubbling and splashing and foaming,
it went merrily and swiftly dancing down its fantastically-cut bed. As
gradually the slope ran down to the valley, the vegetable kingdom
began to assert itself more and more. At first there appeared dwarf
trees with curiously twisted trunks and strangely gnarled branches,
these, in their turn, gave way to the more luxuriant representatives
of the realm of Silvanus, and these again gradually merged into a rich
plantation of fruit-bearing trees, above which the tall cocoa-nut palms
reared their feathered heads waving and nodding to the breeze. Beyond
this, at the foot of the mountain, lay the little dessa Ajo, snugly
embowered in a mass of glossy foliage. Very pleasant to look at from
the eminence were the dwellings of the native villagers with their neat
brown roofs and bright yellow fences peeping here and there through
the rich verdure, reflected in the waters of the Kali Djetis, which
forms the western boundary of the dessa; and which, at that point,
makes a majestic sweep before emptying itself by a wide mouth into
the Indian Ocean.

