But, modest as was the little building which stood there lonely
and deserted on that mountain slope, and poor as was its outward
appearance, yet there existed a very marked difference between it
and the other cabins, the dwellings of the dessa people, far down at
the foot of the mountain. The difference consisted herein, that it
was scrupulously neat and clean, and bore no trace whatever of the
slovenliness and general want of cleanliness which is too often the
characteristic of the houses of the ordinary Javanese villager. The
Javanese, indeed, are an Eastern race. As such they have certain
points in common with all the other branches of the great Oriental
family, whether we call them Moors, Hindoos, Arabs, Chinese, Egyptians,
Berbers, aye, or even Greeks, Italians, or Spaniards. The entire house
from top to bottom, from the roof of fresh nipah leaves to the hedge
of yellow bamboo hurdle, looked bright and clean. The small plot of
ground in front was carefully laid out as a trim garden with well
kept paths and pretty bits of green lawn. The flower-beds also, and
the ornamental shrubs, which grew around, spoke of careful tending,
while an impenetrable hedge of the conyza indica enclosed the entire
nook. At the back of the house lay a patch of grass, evidently used
as a drying ground, for several articles of female apparel, such as
slendangs, sarongs, and the like, were hanging on ropes stretched
over bamboo poles, and fluttered in the breeze.

In the front gallery a single flower-pot was conspicuous, a thing very
seldom found in any Javanese house, in which flowered a magnificent
"Devoniensis" in full bloom; and close by stood a native loom, at
which a young girl was seated cross-legged on a low bamboo stool.

Wholly intent upon her work, she is plying the shuttle with nimble
fingers. As novelist, we are, to some extent, a privileged being,
and may venture to draw near though we would not intrude into the
little house. The girl is so deeply absorbed in her task that we have
leisure, unperceived, to examine the further contents of the verandah;
but specially to watch its solitary occupant. That she has for some
considerable time been hard at work, the reel tells us; for it already
contains quite a thick roll of tissue, the result of her day's toil;
so does, likewise, the spinning-wheel, which stands hard by, ready
to supply the shuttle with thread as soon as it may need replenishing.

