We have, however, no time to collect our thoughts, for, the next
moment as the young girl is again bowing her head to resume her work,
a quick light footstep is heard on the path which leads to Ajo. The
girl looks up, evidently scared at the unusual sound, she peers
anxiously forward and then, almost bereft of the power of speech by
the suddenness of the surprise, she gasps forth the cry, "Dalima!"

Yes, it is indeed Dalima who, with nimble step, has crossed the garden
and is now running up to the verandah. The weaving-girl starts up from
her stool, and before her unexpected visitor has time to mount the
three steps, the pair are locked in each other's embrace and forming,
as it were, but one exclamation we hear the words:

"Nana!"

"Dalima!"

Now the mystery is cleared up, now we recognize at once both the one
and the other. That weaving girl is Anna van Gulpendam and the other
is poor Dalima whom we followed in her anxious and painful search as
far as Karang Anjer when we lost sight of her until now.

"Where have you come from?" asked Anna, as again and again she clasped
the Javanese girl to her breast.

"To-day I came from the dessa Ajo," archly replied Dalima.

"What brought you there?"

"Well, I came from the dessa Pringtoetoel, that's where I was
yesterday."

"But," continued Anna, "what business had you there?"

"The day before that," resumed Dalima not heeding the interruption,
"I was at Gombong and the day before that again at Karang Anjer."

"At Karang Anjer?" exclaimed Anna. "What induced you to go there?"

"To look for my Nana," was the reply.

"To look for me? Is that why you have come all the way from
Santjoemeh? Have you undertaken so long a journey to look for me?--and
in your condition too!"

Anna spoke these last words with some hesitation, while the furtive
glance she cast at the poor girl's figure left no doubt as to her
meaning.

"Yes, Nana," replied Dalima very quietly and without the least trace
of confusion. "As soon as ever I left the prison, thanks to the aid of
the young judge," continued she, as she fixed one penetrating look upon
Anna who felt the blood fly up to her cheeks at the words, "I went to
look after my mother. Thanks again to toean Nerekool, I found her and
the children well provided for. My next thought was for my Nana. The
toean had told me that the nonna was no longer staying at Karang
Anjer but had left, and had vanished without leaving a trace behind
her. I thought I could guess why. I knew how lonely, how forsaken,
how utterly miserable my dear Nana must feel. An irresistible longing
came over me--the longing you know of a young woman in my situation--"
she added with a faint sad smile, "to go at once and look for Nana
so that I might be of some service to her. I started and--"

