"Does toean van Nerekool know of all this?" asked Anna much alarmed.

"No, Nana, he knows nothing whatever about it."

"You did not tell him what you were going to do?"

"No, Nana, I did not."

"Might you not perhaps have dropped some hint to Mr. van Nerekool,
or may be to your mother? Do, Dalima, try and remember!"

"No, I have not given toean Charles the slightest hint of my
intention. I told my mother that I was going to seek for you."

"Where?" asked Anna.

"Well, Nana, at Karang Anjer."

"But you knew that you would not find me at Karang Anjer?"

"Oh, I knew that; but I wanted to see Mrs. Steenvlak. I thought she
would be sure to tell me where you had gone."

"Did you go to Mrs. Steenvlak?" inquired Anna,

"Yes, Nana."

"And--?"

"I could learn nothing from her. The njonja confessed that she knew
where you were; but she refused to tell me--she said she had promised
not to let anyone know."

Anna drew a deep sigh of relief.

"But how then did you manage to find me, Dalima?" she asked.

"Well, Nana, how shall I tell you that? It is such a long story. I
have been wandering about in all directions, I have made inquiries
everywhere. I asked at the posting-houses, at the loerahs of each dessa
I passed through. I questioned the gardoes and the stall-keepers on
the road. In fact I asked everywhere and everybody. In my wanderings,
at length I happened to come to the dessa Pembanan."

"The dessa Pembanan!" cried Anna in the greatest agitation.

"Yes," resumed Dalima, "that's where I found the first trace. You
took a cup of coffee there at a stall while you had to wait for the
pole of your sedan to be repaired."

Anna glanced down uneasily at her yellow-stained hands.

"Oh! it is no use looking at your hands," continued Dalima with
a smile. "The old stall-keeper has sharp eyes and the stain could
hardly deceive her. She guessed at once that you were either a nonna
or a princess."

"Well, go on!" sighed Anna.

"You asked her how far Pembanan was from the dessas Sikaja and
Pringtoetoel--did you not?"

