"Yes, that is so," replied Anna.

"Very well, then, that clue I have followed, up hill and down dale."

"Poor, poor dear girl!" cried Anna, as with tears in her eyes she
again clasped Dalima to her breast. "Poor child! such a journey, and
in your condition, too! Yes, now I see how worn and weary you look!"

"Oh, that's nothing!" cried Dalima cheerfully, "that's nothing,
I am strong enough, Nana, don't trouble yourself about that.

"At Pringtoetoel," she continued, "I got further information. There
they told me that you had gone on to the dessa Ajo. When I got there
I found the very sedan in which you had travelled--it was stowed away
in the loerah's grounds--and they told me that you had a house built
for yourself up here--How very pretty!"

As she said this Dalima looked around; and an involuntary sigh
escaped from her lips, a sigh which contrasted strangely with her
spoken words. The Javanese girl could not help comparing this wretched
little tenement with the stately Residential palace at Santjoemeh.

Hitherto the conversation had been carried on standing, the girls half
leaning upon, half embracing one another. Said Anna, who perfectly
understood the meaning of that sigh and wished to break the train of
Dalima's thoughts:

"Come, let us sit down, you must be dead-tired, poor Dalima."

So saying she resumed her seat on the little bench while Dalima,
as in days gone by, squatted down on the mat at Anna's feet and laid
her head lovingly in her mistress's lap. Then the conversation flowed
on as briskly as before.

"No, Nana," said Dalima, "I am not the least tired. I arrived yesterday
morning, very early, at Ajo and have had plenty of time for rest."

"But now," resumed Anna, "do tell me something about yourself, about
your own affairs, about the trial and all that."

Thereupon followed the story with which our readers are acquainted. We
need hardly add that in the telling of it van Nerekool's name was
by no means forgotten. Dalima's deep gratitude to her benefactor
would not allow her for an instant to neglect his interests. It even
seemed as if that gentleman's name was introduced into her story more
frequently than the narrative strictly required. So much so that Anna
could not help saying:

