"Will you assure me, will you swear, that it was not at Mr. van
Nerekool's suggestion that you have undertaken this journey in quest
of me?"

"Yes, Nana, I will swear it," replied Dalima readily and with the
utmost candour.

"And now," continued Anna, "you must make me another promise, and
that is that you will never in any way whatever, let him know that
you have succeeded in finding me."

Dalima made no reply. For a few moments she hesitated.

"Now listen to me, Dalima," resumed Anna very firmly, "if you will
not make me that promise, and promise it most solemnly, then we must
part. You will have to leave me and I shall go elsewhere. Heaven only
knows where I shall go to!"

One instant the Javanese girl looked up at her companion
incredulously--then seeing that Anna was in downright earnest she
exclaimed:

"Not stay with you, Nana! Oh! do not say so. I who have travelled
so far to be with you. You cannot mean it. Not stay with you? But
that can never be. I have left my parents, my friends, my home,
my all--only to be close to you--and now you talk of parting!"

The poor child could get no further; uncontrollable sobs stifled
her voice.

"No, no!" cried Anna, who was in reality no less deeply moved than
her companion; "no, no, very far from it. Above all things I wish
to keep you here with me; but you must promise that you will not let
anyone know where I am hiding--will you promise that?"

Dalima flung herself weeping into her mistress's arms:

"You are so lonely here, so miserably poor!" she sobbed.

"Oh, that is nothing," cried Anna, "never mind that; I have got used
to it."

"He loves you so dearly, so tenderly," pleaded the baboe.

"Not another word on that subject, Dalima," said Anna, very sternly;
"you cannot possibly understand how insurmountable a barrier there
exists between Mr. van Nerekool and myself. There can never be
a question of marriage between us, let me tell you that once and
for all."

The baboe made no immediate reply, but went on sobbing and weeping
as if her heart would break.

