"Will you make that promise, Dalima?" insisted Anna.

"I owe him so much," sobbed Dalima, "I am so anxious to make him
happy."

"You would be doing him the greatest wrong, Dalima."

"Wrong?" cried the baboe, "how so? by bringing him to you; oh, Nana!"

"Once again, I say not another word on that subject," cried Anna; and
then, taking her companion's hand she continued: "Now, Dalima, give
me your hand--so, that is right; now you will give me your promise,
will you not?"

"It makes my heart ache to think of it," sobbed Dalima, "but if you
will have it so, I must obey. I give you my promise."

"That's a good girl," said Anna cheerfully, but with a painful
smile. "Now I am glad that you have come, for you will be able to
help me, oh! ever so much. Look what a splendid striped material I
have here on the loom."

"Do you make those things, yourself, Nana?" asked Dalima in pitying
accents, "you, the daughter of a kandjeng toean Resident?"

"Now, Dalima," said Anna sadly, "that is another subject you must never
mention. Not a soul knows me here. They do not so much as suspect
that I am a white woman. They take me for a Solo princess who has
been banished by her father--you told me so yourself--Oh! there are
such funny stories about that, the one funnier than the other. You see
that name of poetri is of the greatest use to me. The good dessa-folk
look upon me as a kind of supernatural being and it protects me from
all danger. Why even the old woman who sells my goods takes me for
a relative of the Queen of the South, and can get much better prices
for me than the things would otherwise fetch."

"Do you sell those 'kains' you make, Nana?" exclaimed Dalima, folding
her hands in sorrowful wonder, "you, the child of a kandjeng toean?"

"But Dalima," replied Anna, with a smile, "that child of a kandjeng
toean, as you call her, must eat like other mortals. Come, I must get
on with my work, we have wasted too much time already in talking. That
kain polèng mas has been ordered and I must get it done as soon
as possible."

