So Anna set to work again at the loom. Dalima, for a little while,
sat watching her with tearful eyes; but presently she jumped up, took
the spinning-wheel and placed it close to the loom so that they could
continue their conversation without allowing their hands to be idle,
and then began industriously to spin. So clever did she show herself
at the wheel that Anna gave her an approving nod and said:

"That's right; now I shall have some real help and we shall get on
famously. Nothing kept me back so much as that continual spinning
every time my spool was empty."

"Oh, but," said Dalima, with a smile, and not without a touch of pride,
"I can do a good deal more than spinning. You will see I can take my
turn at the loom as well. I am a particularly good hand at painting
on linen."

"Indeed, I am glad to hear that; then you will be of the greatest use
to me; for I must confess I am as yet rather awkward at it though I
have improved very much since I began. Before we go and get dinner
ready I must show you some of my productions in that line."

Thus chatting, the girls went on working diligently for another
couple of hours until it became time to go to the kitchen. In that
department also, everything was poor enough. It required no very
elaborate cookery-book to prepare their simple meal. Dalima would
not allow her Nana to have any hand whatever in the cooking. She
took the basket of raw rice, ran to the brook which flowed hard by,
thoroughly washed the grains until the water ran off clear through the
basket. Then she put the koekoesan on the fire in a dangdang, wrapped
a little salt fish with herbs and Spanish pepper in pisang leaves to
make pèpèsan ikan, and roasted them slightly over the glowing coal
fire. Next she toasted a few strips of meat and had everything ready
long before the rice was done.

"Now, Nana," she asked as she looked around, "where is our table and
the table-linen? I want to lay the cloth."

"You forget, it seems, Dalima, that I have turned Javanese. If I wish
to remain unknown, I must conform, in every respect, to the manners
and customs of our dessa-people There is my table and these are my
knife and fork."

