Thus saying, Anna pointed downwards to the pandan mat which covered
the floor and then held up her taper fingers.

Dalima heaved a deep sigh.

"But, Nana," she asked, "can it be necessary for you to work and to
live thus? Have you then no money at all?"

"Money!" replied Anna, who retained all her pride in the midst of
her adversity, "I have plenty of money, I am very well off, I might
indeed call myself rich for one in my position. But you must not
forget that I am in hiding; and that if I did not work and did not
live exactly like the natives, they would begin to suspect me and
then my hiding-place would very soon be discovered. Moreover, who can
tell what the future may have in store; the day may come when that
money which I now so carefully hoard, though you may perhaps think
me stingy, may be of the greatest use to us?"

"Oh, Nana!" cried the baboe, as she strove to put in a word.

But Anna would have no arguments.

"Come, come," said she, "let us change the subject. While the rice
is boiling, come and see how I have been getting on with my painting."

She took Dalima into the back-gallery where stood several frames on
which were stretched the tissues she had woven and which showed the
process of painting in all its stages. On one of them the piece of
linen was as yet pure white and the flowers which were to be painted
were only lightly traced upon it. Another frame showed the designs
partly covered with wax, so as to protect these parts from the action
of the dye. On a third again the ground colour had been applied and
the wax had been removed from such portions of the design as were
to receive the next coat of paint. Neatly arranged around stood
the small pots of colours, of indigo, of red paint, of brown paint,
of yellow paint, and so forth.

All these things Dalima surveyed with the critical eye of an expert
and she highly approved of the arrangements. She took up a saucer
which held the wax, and having held it to the fire, she proceeded,
by means of a little tube, to pour the melted substance on one of
the drawings and so gave proof of her skill in that kind of work.

