"You see, Nana!" she cried, triumphantly, "you see how useful I shall
be to you! I shall also teach you how to use the 'aboe Kesambi' (ashes
of the Scheichera trijaga), I don't see any about here--then you will
see how vastly your flowers will improve in colour and softness."

Thus then had baboe Dalima found a home on the slope of the Goenoeng
Poleng. Thus she was again united to the young mistress to whom
she was attached with a fervour of devotion which is not uncommon
among Javanese servants. Both girls toiled and moiled together. Anna
insisted upon taking her full share in all the drudgery of the little
housekeeping--and whatever objections the baboe might strive to
make, Anna would share and share alike. In Dalima she had acquired
not a servant; but a true and faithful companion and friend, and a
comforter and supporter in the time of her bitter trial. How long
was that peaceful life to last--?








CHAPTER XXXVI.

LIM HO'S WEDDING.


On a fine September morning, of the same year in which the other
events of our story took place, Santjoemeh was once again in a state
of commotion. And no wonder. For that day had been fixed upon for
the marriage of Lim Ho. Of Lim Ho, the son of the opium farmer,
the son of the millionaire Lim Yang Bing, with Ngow Ming Nio,
the prettiest Chinese girl of Santjoemeh, the prettiest perhaps in
all Dutch India. She was the only daughter of old Ngow Ming Than, a
speculator who had dealt in every possible thing out of which money
could be made, and who was honoured, esteemed and sought after for
the sake of the millions he had scraped together. Money everywhere
exercises a certain power of attraction; not otherwise was it at
Santjoemeh, and the union of two such enormous capitals was certain,
therefore, to awaken general interest. Moreover, a Chinese wedding
of this kind was a very rare occurrence, and the reports of the
magnificence which the house of Lim Yang Bing would display on the
occasion, were so extravagant that they bordered on the miraculous,
and opened to the imagination visions like those of the Arabian Nights.

