All Santjoemeh--taking these words in the same sense as "tout Paris"
on similar occasions--had been scheming and intriguing to obtain an
invitation; and many a pleasant smile had been lavished on babah Ong
Sing Kok, or on babah Than Soeï, the purveyors of Mesdames Zoetbrouw
and Greenhoed, ladies who, in the ordinary way, did not waste their
blandishments on Chinamen, because it was thought that these gentlemen
had a pretty large acquaintance among the staff of servants on Lim
Yang Bing's establishment, and that through them the much coveted
card of invitation might be procured.

There were some who were wicked enough to whisper, that a certain nonna
had promised one of Lim Ho's cousins to give him a kiss if he would
procure her parents a ticket for admission. The wicked went on to say,
that this Chinaman, a shrewd fellow--like most of his race--had refused
to undertake the negotiation, unless he received payment on account; an
instalment which was not to count on the day of final settlement. That
these negotiations had been very much protracted owing to the many
difficulties which would constantly arise; that, on every such check
in the proceedings, progress had to be reported to the young lady,
and that our artful young Celestial had made every fresh effort on
his part depend upon the payment of another instalment on hers. If
all this were true, then the poor nonna must have paid pretty dearly
for her ticket--in kisses. That, however, is the story of the wicked,
it is not ours. On that September morning then, Santjoemeh was in a
fever of excitement and expectation. If here and there perhaps Lim
Ho's ugly adventure with baboe Dalima had not been forgotten, the
remembrance of that outrage did not damp the general enthusiasm, or
keep any one at home. Those who were troubled with a somewhat tender
conscience, laid the flattering unction to their soul that, as there
had been no prosecution, probably the whole story was false, or that,
at the worst, no great harm had been done. Others there were who
fully believed the truth of the reports which had been spread abroad;
and who actually envied Lim Ho his "bonne fortune." That Dalima was
such a pretty girl! Oh, no! there was no one who would deny himself
the expected pleasure on that account. It was very much the other way.

