The evening before the eventful day, Santjoemeh had had something like
a foretaste of the coming joy. For, on that evening, a procession
had started to the Chinese temple. Now, marriage has, in the
celestial empire, no necessary connection whatever with any religious
observances; yet, on the present occasion, it had been thought well to
propitiate the goddess Má Tsów Pô, the guardian and protecting deity
of candidates for matrimony and of newly married people. Accordingly,
on the eve of the wedding, a procession had been formed in front of
the bride's house. First came a numerous band of native musicians who,
on their brass instruments accompanied by a drum of monstrous size,
performed a selection of waltzes, polkas, mazurkas and redowas. In
spite of the horrible dissonance of their execution, these lively
tunes would have set even Johann Strauss a jigging could he but have
heard them. Then followed a corps of Chinese artists whose grating
one-stringed fiddles, clashing cymbals and discordant screeching
wind-instruments, alternated with the former band; and produced a mixed
medley of hideous sounds, which literally set one's teeth on edge,
and put all but the most inveterate sightseers to instant flight. At
the head of the procession and in its rear, marched six torch-bearers,
while eight paper lanterns were born aloft on red poles on either
side. These shed a soft coloured light and, by their fantastic shapes,
imparted a thoroughly Chinese air to the scene. But the nucleus,
and most important part of the pageant, consisted of twelve boys who
walked two and two, and were called 'lo jen see' (barefeet). They
were dressed in short nankin gowns reaching only to the knee, under
which appeared the bare legs and feet, and on their heads they wore
tall conical caps, trimmed with red fringe. Each of these youths held
in his hand the pa-lee, or hollow metal ring containing little bits
of iron, from which hung small copper bells. With these, the bearers
made a gentle rattling sound as they marched along.

