When the temple was reached, the boys grouped themselves around the
image of Má Tsów Pô, a deity represented as standing on the clouds
and wearing a crown in token of her dignity of Queen of Heaven. Then,
to a kind of measure, they began to mumble and chaunt their prayers
and incantations, shaking their ring the while incessantly. This went
on for about the space of an hour, and then the procession reformed
and marched homeward with a far greater crowd at its heels than had
accompanied its setting out.

The next day, however, was the great day.

Very early in the morning carriages began to rattle through the
streets of Santjoemeh, to fetch the landowners, officials, and other
distinguished guests, who lived in the country round about. On the
stroke of ten the élite of the Residence had assembled in the vast
inner-gallery of Lim Yang Bing's mansion. The gentlemen were all in
full-dress, in uniform, or in black evening dress; the ladies wore
ball toilettes; and at the entrance a number of Chinese boys were
stationed to hand to each of their fair guests a bouquet of lovely
pink roses. As one by one the principal guests drove up, crackers were
let off, varying in number according to the social position of the
individual who presented himself. If two or more happened to enter
together, bunches of crackers were exploded in exact proportion to
the number of visitors; and sometimes these fireworks exploded with
a din that was almost deafening.

At length Mr. van Gulpendam and his fair spouse made their
appearance. They were received and escorted into the house by
Chinese officers with the most punctilious ceremony. At his entrance,
two copper serpents were exploded, and there were flatterers among
the company who declared to Laurentia and to Lim Yang Bing, that,
compared to the din these terrible serpents made, an eruption of
Krakatoea was but child's play.

The object of this infernal noise was two-fold. It was useful on the
one hand to frighten away the evil spirits who might be lurking about
the premises, and, on the other, it served as an expression of joy
and as an evidence of cordial welcome to the visitors.

