As soon as the Resident had arrived, a long line of the intimate
friends and acquaintances of the bridegroom, accompanied by the
inevitable band and by the barefeet who had officiated on the
previous evening, started off to fetch the bride from the house of
her parents. Meanwhile, the major and the captain of the Chinese
did the honours of the feast, while the lieutenants of that nation
acted as masters of the ceremonies. Nothing could be more courteous
than the manner in which these gentlemen acquitted themselves of their
onerous duties. They attended to every want, they offered refreshments;
and soon the popping of champagne corks indoors began to mingle with
the incessant banging of the fireworks without; and generous wine,
iced in huge silver bowls, was foaming and sparkling in the crystal
glasses. For the ladies, there was an ample supply of hippocras,
Golden water, Chartreuse and other liqueurs.

Lim Yang Bing had offered his arm to fair Laurentia, and the pair
walked leisurely up and down that stately saloon, which, under ordinary
circumstances, might be called magnificent, but had now been specially
decorated with the utmost skill and taste. The woodwork, the pillars,
the beams and architraves of the apartment were all curiously carved
and heavily gilt, and represented either hideous dragon-forms, or else
scenes of domestic life in China. The walls were tinted a delicate
rose-colour, and the floor, of pure Carrara marble, was covered with
matting woven of the finest split rottan. At the end of this splendid
saloon stood the altar of Tao Peng Kong gorgeously decorated, while
wide strips of red silk, bearing black Chinese letters, hung on either
side of the sanctuary.

"Tell me, babah," asked the Resident's wife, "what may be the meaning
of that scribble on those red rags?"

"They are proverbs, njonja, taken from Kong Foe Hi," gallantly replied
the Chinaman.

"Yes, but what do they mean?"

"That one, njonja, signifies: 'May the five blessings abide in this
house.'"

