"And the others?"

"They are the names of the five blessings."

"Ah indeed!" continued Laurentia, "and what are those blessings?"

"A long life, peace and rest, love of virtue, wealth and a happy end
as the crown of life."

"And what do the letters on those lanterns signify? I say, babah,
they are very fine!" said Laurentia pointing upward at the lanterns,
depending from the ceiling and from the beams.

They were handsome hexagonal contrivances skilfully made, in the
Chinese style, of wrought copper, and having large plates of pure
polished crystal let into the sides.

"Yes, yes, njonja," assented the babah with a complacent smile,
"as you say they are very beautiful objects; but they cost a good
deal of money. Now could you give a guess at the price of one of
those copper lanterns?"

"Not I, babah! how could I? let me see--they may be worth some fifty
guilders."

"Fifty guilders!" exclaimed the Chinaman with something like pity
for her ignorance. "Oh, njonja, how could you have made such a bad
shot. Why! I thought you prized the masterpieces of our Chinese art
somewhat more highly than that!"

"Well!" said the crafty woman, "and what, pray, may be the value of
the things?"

"Every lantern, njonja, you see hanging there, has cost me in Canton,
three hundred and fifty guilders, without reckoning carriage and duty."

"Oh, never mind that!" laughed Laurentia, "I daresay you managed to
smuggle them across."

"No, njonja, by Kong, no! I can show you the receipt from the
custom-house. Will the njonja--"

"No, babah, don't trouble yourself, I take your word for it. But what
may they have cost you altogether?"

"Close upon four hundred guilders a piece, njonja."

"There are about thirty of them I should think," said Laurentia.

"Only five and twenty, njonja."

"Only! Only five and twenty!" said Mrs. van Gulpendam smiling. "It
is pretty well, I should say--ten thousand guilders worth of lanterns!"

Lim Yang Bing's face glowed with satisfaction. Like most parvenus he
took an intense delight in letting every one know what he had paid
for the precious objects he exhibited.

