"Yes, I think so, partly at least for that; and I believe he has
some other business to transact with you. The Government, you know,
expects the bids to go much higher this year."

"Oh ho!" grinned the Chinaman.

"You now pay twelve hundred thousand guilders for your monopoly,
do you not? You will have to make it twenty, or else the Government
will keep the whole business in its own hands."

"Let them!" said Lim Yang Bing smiling disdainfully, "I should very
much like to see that." But, after a moment's reflection, he went on:
"It is quite impossible to offer more; as it is, we can only just
avoid a loss."

"And yet you can manage to give two millions to your son as a wedding
present," remarked Laurentia, with a knowing laugh.

"Aye," he continued, as if he had not heard the remark, "if the
Government would grant more licenses in the Residence, in that case."--

"Is that all?" cried Laurentia carelessly. "How many do you hold
now? But; that is no business of mine. How many more do you want?"

"Ten at the very least," was the ready answer.

"That's a good many, babah!--if ten additional licenses were granted,
then I understand you to say that you are prepared to go up to two
millions?"

Lim Yang Bing could only nod assent; he had no time to express
himself verbally, for at that moment the procession, which had gone
to fetch the bride had returned, and was appearing at the entrance
of the gallery.

Its arrival was greeted with an explosion of fireworks so tremendous,
and a cacophony from the Chinese band so hideous, that the din was
absolutely deafening. If any evil spirits had been lurking about,
that atrocious noise must certainly have made them take to their
heels. No, not even the Shan Sao could stand that. In the midst of all
this uproar, a comely group of Chinese maidens, very demure damsels,
with finely cut features and modestly attired in picturesque gowns
of yellow silk, with rose coloured sashes round their slim little
waists, came forward to meet the bride and to bid her welcome. They
offered her a garland of peach blossom, the emblem of maiden purity,
and some nick-nacks amongst which was a cock, the emblem of the sungod,
curiously carved out of peach-wood.

