Lim Ho also advanced to offer his hand to Ngow Ming Nio, and to lead
her to a table well furnished with the customary viands. On that
board appeared an endless array of dishes, the usual Chinese dishes,
such as sharks' fins, soup made of stags' tendons and birds' nests,
"kiemlo" and "bahmieh" (two fat soups) and other delicacies of
no particular significance. But besides these the table contained
other articles of food to which a distinctly emblematical meaning
was attached. There was the pomegranate sliced in such a manner as
to display to the greatest advantage its innumerable seedgrains,
signifying the numerous offspring with which might the marriage be
richly blessed! There were large heaps of the orange, fit emblem of
the sweetness of life, which might the happy pair long enjoy! There
were clusters of the oyster, typifying the distinct personality of
each member and the unbroken unity of the entire family; and lastly
some cuttings of the sugar cane, signifying the blessedness of the
married state which, as that cane from knot to knot, from joint to
joint, still increases in sweetness and in love.

The betrothed couple now took their place at the table, Lim Ho at his
bride's left hand, the place of honour in China. Before them were set
two mighty goblets of pure gold. Both the beakers were filled with
wine to the brim, and were connected with one another by a thread of
scarlet silk. Then the bride and bridegroom simultaneously drained
half the contents of the cups, after which they exchanged goblets,
taking care however, that the scarlet thread remained unbroken. This
time the cups were drained.

"Ouff!" cried van Beneden, who was present with his friends, "it is
enough to take one's breath away! Each of those things must hold at
least a bottle and a half of wine I bet! For Lim Ho it is nothing;
but for that poor little thing!"

"Aye, and I bet, you wouldn't mind hob-nobbing with pretty Ngow Ming
Nio," replied Grenits.

"Do hold your tongue!" said Grashuis as he glanced at a group of
Chinamen who stood near, and who looked anything but pleased at the
unseemly burst of merriment which at so solemn a moment, had greeted
Grenits' words.

