The nuptial ceremonies having been thus performed, the young wife took
up in the spoon two of the little balls and gracefully presented them
to the lips of her husband, and, with a winning smile, invited him to
eat. By this rite the newly married woman bound herself to bear all
the cares and anxieties of the domestic arrangements in the future
household. While this ceremony was going on, one of the oldest members
of the family audibly recited a few words in the Chinese tongue.

"What is he saying?" asked Grenits, turning to his friendly neighbour.

"O toean," replied the latter, "it is a quotation from the Sji-king,
the book of songs which was printed long, very long ago."

(It is said to have been printed in the eleventh century B.C.)

"But what is the meaning of the quotation?"

"It has a very pretty meaning--something like this: 'The peach tree
is young and fair, its blossoms are pure and bright--this young woman
is going to her future home and will be an excellent manager of her
domestic affairs.'"

"Very pretty indeed!" laughed Grenits.

When the young wife had thus, typically, served her husband with food,
both made another low obeisance, and this concluded the ceremony.

The last bow was the signal for another terrific outburst of noise. The
small cannon thundered, salvos of innumerable mertjons were fired off,
the band of the Santjoemeh militia, which had appeared but lately
on the scene, played up with all its might, the Chinese orchestra
shrieked forth most dismal wails, and that roaring, that crackling,
that drumming, that tooting, that sawing and scraping produced a din
so indescribably stunning and so hideous that an ear-drum of bull's
hide could hardly have endured the noise.

In the midst of this tumult the newly married couple took up their
position in front of the altar of Tao' Peh Kong. First, they each
kindled a little stick of sandal wood and fragrant incense which,
while burning, they stuck into a massive golden bowl half filled with
scented ashes. Thus having paid their homage to the household god, they
turned to receive the congratulations of the company. This was not a
national custom at all, for in China, when no white men are present,
the wedded pair at once retire to their apartment. It was, in fact,
a concession made to Western usage, and the Chinamen who were present
scrupulously avoided taking any part in it. The majority of them left,
to show their zeal, no doubt, by letting off some more fireworks and
completing the rout of the evil spirits.

