Resident van Gulpendam, taking his wife's arm, at once headed the
procession of Europeans all eager to fall down before those millions
thus auspiciously coupled together. But for these millions, however
lovely might have been the bride, and though in the little world
around him Lim Ho might have been voted a very good sort of fellow,
not a single soul would have so much as dreamed of taking part in this
chorus of hollow compliment. The scandal about Dalima was of much too
recent date. But now that the two millions on the one side had joined
the two millions on the other--now that Lim Ho, the son of Lim Yang
Bing, the all-powerful opium farmer, was the happy man, now the entire
European population was ready to crowd around that highly-favoured
couple and press upon them their heartfelt and sincere congratulations.

Not content with this, Mr. van Gulpendam considered it his duty, after
having shaken hands, to add a few words of affectionate advice. Very
fortunate indeed it was that neither husband nor wife understood the
Dutch language and thus were spared the infliction of the nautical
terms with which the worthy resident so richly interlarded his
discourse, but which he found utterly untranslatable into Malay. It
was a good thing also for the patience of the bystanders, that
Laurentia stood by the side of her dear spouse and exhorted him to
be brief by digging the point of her elbow pretty sharply into his
side. At length the twaddle of the chief functionary came to an end,
and now ensued a scene of handshaking, of cringing and fawning, and
of general cant on both sides, which would have filled any honest
heart with the deepest disgust. But neither Lim Yang Bing nor Lim
Ho failed to notice that neither Theodoor Grenits, nor August van
Beneden, nor Leendert Grashuis, nor Edward van Rheijn had joined
this troop of sycophants. They had taken advantage of the crowd and
confusion to leave the house. Charles van Nerekool had flatly refused
to go at all. He could not overcome the aversion with which Lim Ho
had inspired him; but when he heard a report of the proceedings,
he resolved that, should another such opportunity occur, though the
festivities might be held on a much smaller scale, he would try and
witness so extraordinary a spectacle.

