It was well perhaps for our young friends that they left when they
did; for presently the scene became rather uproarious. No sooner
were the greetings exchanged and the congratulations ended, than
the champagne corks began to pop with an energy and frequency which
seemed to rival the bangs of the mertjons outside. Presently the
whole company, Chinamen and Europeans, stood up, holding aloft their
glasses full of sparkling wine, and deafening cheers were raised,
while the Chinese "trauwkoeis" and the clattering cymbals screeched
and clashed, and the militia trumpets brayed, and the serpents and
mertjons banged with a noise as if a town was being bombarded. In
the midst of this unearthly din the bridal pair disappeared; anxious,
probably, to save their ear-drums.

In the evening, the formal banquet took place, to which eighty guests
had been invited. The menu of the feast had been carefully prepared
by a French mâitre d'hôtel, and was excellent; although next day the
wags of Santjoemeh would have it that dishes decidedly peculiar to
the Celestial empire had graced the board, such as "Potage Kiemlo à
la Tartare," "Potage printanier à l'ail," "Croquettes aux oreilles
de rats," "Bouchées d'ailerons de requins," "Consommées de tripang,"
&c. &c.

After dinner, President van Gulpendam rose to propose the toast of the
evening; and to drink the health of the newly married couple. He did
so, if the reports are to be believed, in a speech of extraordinary
brilliancy. It fell to his lot also, afterwards, to propose the health
of the Chinese officers, and, in doing so, he expressed a hope that
the Netherlands might always find in her Chinese subjects as faithful
and useful members of the community as they had hitherto proved
themselves to be. He laid very marked stress upon the word "useful,"
and the close of his speech was greeted with thundering applause.

Lim Yang Bing replied to this toast, and at the conclusion of his
remarks he proposed the health of Mr. and Mrs. van Gulpendam. He
heartily congratulated Santjoemeh on the possession of such excellent
rulers, and for the good of its inhabitants in general, and of the
Chinese community in particular, he expressed the hope that they
might long see that noble pair at the head of the Residence.

