It was well that the roof of the mansion was a pretty strong one and
that the foundations of its walls and pillars were firm and deep, or
else some deplorable calamity must have occurred; for the deafening
cheers of the company burst forth with the force of a hurricane; the
soil literally shook under the feet of the assembled guests at the
salvoes of mertjons and of small ordnance without, while the air within
was alive with the popping of corks, which flew from the necks of the
bottles with the regularity of well sustained file-fire. So unbounded
was the enthusiasm with which the eloquent words of the worthy opium
farmer were received. After the banquet came the ball, which was
attended by almost the whole of Santjoemeh. Towards midnight, there
was a display of Chinese fireworks in the grounds, and our pig-tailed
brethren, on that occasion, proved how immeasurably superior is their
skill in pyrotechny compared to anything European artists can aspire
to in that line. Then dancing was resumed with fresh vigour, and the
last couples did not leave the ball-room until the break of day.

"That was a glorious, a most sumptuous feast, babah," said Resident
van Gulpendam a few days later to his friend Lim Yang Bing. "My
eyes! didn't you make the galley smoke!"

"Yes, kandjeng toean," replied the opium farmer, with a smile
of intensely gratified vanity. "Yes; but it has cost me a pretty
little sum of money, why, in champagne alone, I have spent more than
two thousand guilders, and quite another twelve hundred in Rhenish
wine. The fireworks I had direct from Canton, and they have cost me
three thousand at the very least."

As he dwelt upon these details, the man was in the seventh heaven
of delight.








CHAPTER XXXVII.

DISGRACEFUL OPPOSITION. TWO OPIUM COMPANIES BY THE EARS.


Nearly the whole of Santjoemeh had been keeping festival. It was,
indeed, no everyday occurrence for the son of the rich opium farmer
of the district to marry the daughter of an equally wealthy disciple
of Mercury. At the union of so many millions the Dutch public could
not but evince the liveliest interest--and it had done so.

