We said: nearly the whole of Santjoemeh; for there were some who
had not thought it incumbent upon them to grace the banquet and
the ball with their presence. Van Beneden, Grashuis, van Rheijn,
and Grenits, had allowed their ethnological curiosity to prevail so
far as to induce them to go and witness the nuptial ceremony; but
nothing could persuade them to attend the subsequent festivities. They
had, on the contrary, determined, while the European population was
crowding within Lim Yang Bing's stately mansion in the Gang Pinggir,
and the natives were swarming all around it, to pass a particularly
quiet evening together at the house of their friend van Nerekool.

When they entered they found the young judge still seated at his
study bending over his work by the light of a reading-lamp.

"Hallo!" cried one, "still at it?"

"Are the courts so very busy just now?" asked another.

"By Jove!" exclaimed a third, "that's what I call zeal for the
service!"

"Ornithologically speaking," laughed van Beneden, "our friend Charles
should be classed with the rara avis. Come, come, old fellow, this
is no time for working! All Santjoemeh is astir--just hear what an
infernal row is going on yonder."

"Yes," remarked Theodoor Grenits, with a scornful laugh, "they are
making noise enough over it."

"My dear friends," replied van Nerekool, "the greater part of the day
I have been very busy indeed; for as Leendert just now observed with
more truth than he himself was aware, at the present moment we have
a great deal of work to get through in the courts; but yet, when you
came in, I was occupied in a very different manner."

"Would it be indiscreet to ask what made our host bend his head so
anxiously over his desk?" asked Theodoor.

"Not at all, I was reading a letter I have just received from William;
that is what made me lay aside my pen."

"From William Verstork?"

"How is he?"

"Is he well?"

"How is he getting on at Atjeh?"

These questions crossed one another, and were uttered, as it were,
in a breath; for the five young men were warmly attached to the
worthy controller.

