"But from that time to this her family have had no tidings from her,"
continued van Rheijn.

"Have they heard nothing?" asked Charles.

"Not a single word--indeed her parents do not know whether she is
alive or dead."

Van Nerekool's head sunk down despondingly on his breast. "One faint
gleam of hope," he murmured, "and then dark night again!"

For a while no one spoke. At length van Beneden, who wished to lead
his friend's thoughts into a different channel, broke the silence:

"Does Verstork write upon no other subject than this?"

"Oh, yes," replied Charles, who was gradually regaining his
composure. "Let us go into the inner room and I will read you the
most interesting portion of his letter. This is not at all the place
for a comfortable chat."

Thereupon they left the study, which, with its folios and bulky
law-books, did not indeed present a very sociable or cosy appearance.

"Sabieio, chairs and cigars for the gentlemen!" cried van
Nerekool. When all were seated and the fragrant Manillas were lighted,
he continued:

"Gentlemen, what do you say to a glass of beer?"

No very determined opposition being offered to this hospitable
proposal, van Nerekool again called to his servant, "Sabieio, bring
us some iced beer."

Thus all having quenched their thirst in the pleasant and cooling
beverage:

"Now then gentlemen," said Charles, "I will give you the most important
parts of William's letter," and he began to read as follows:

"'Do you recollect that when we sat down to dinner together after
our day's hunting in the Djoerang Pringapoes, I told you of a certain
recipe for pills to counteract opium, and how that I also told you what
success I had already had with this medicine? Grenits, at the time,
was not at all inclined to look favourably upon that communication,
and took a very gloomy view of the prospect which lay before me. The
words he used on that occasion have been continually ringing in my
ears; and to this day I remember them as clearly as when they were
spoken, he said: "Keep that prescription strictly to yourself, and
don't say a word about it to anybody. The Colonial Secretary, who has
but one object in view, and that is to raise the opium revenue as much
as possible, might look upon your remedy as an attack made upon the
golden calf; and missionaries have before this been impeded in their
Gospel work, and men have been expelled from the colonies, and official
functionaries have been suspended or pensioned off for the commission
of much more venial offences than bringing such pills as yours to the
opium smokers." Now, Charles, you know that although with an eye to
the future of the members of my family, who, to some extent, depend
upon me for support, I was, for a few moments, depressed at my friend's
gloomy prognostic; yet I soon rallied, and, after a little reflection,
began to look upon Grenits' words as the outcome of a passing fit of
melancholy induced by our conversation, which had almost exclusively
run on opium horrors and opium scandals. Indeed, Grenits himself
could not have intended to paint the future in colours as dark as his
words seemed to imply; for you remember that when I laughed and said:
"Oh, it is not quite so bad as that, I hope," he replied with a smile,
"Perhaps not; but your pills will not earn you the Netherlands' Lion."

