"'Ah, no, Charles! I never aimed at any such distinction. The little
good I have been able to do I have done simply for its own sake and
without the least expectation of any recompense. Such ambition I have
always most willingly left to others; for I know full well that seldom
real merit, sometimes the directly opposite, but always a certain
amount of pliability and want of back-bone, is rewarded by these
outward tokens of official approbation. And the mere thought that
I might so much as be suspected of belonging to those invertebrates
would suffice to paralyse every effort on my part. The shaft which
Theodoor thus shot at random missed its mark; yet neither he nor
I could, at that time, suspect how much sarcasm lay hidden in his
last words or how very much to the point had been his foregoing
counsels. Now pay good heed to what I am about to tell you.

"'I had not been here very long, before I received a document from
the Chief Secretary's office at Batavia. That, in itself, was no very
uncommon occurrence. I have frequently had communications from that
quarter when information was required on certain civil questions,
such as duties and other things of that kind, about which they did
not wish to trouble the Military Governor. But yet, it seemed rather
strange to me that, on this occasion, I did not receive the document
through the Chief of the Military Department. It was a written paper,
yet not a despatch. It looked more like a circular although these
are generally either printed or lithographed. Now listen to what it
contained: "An attempt has been discovered at Batavia to import certain
pills consisting of or mixed with opium, under the pretence that they
are medicinal. The Indian Government has come to the conclusion that
the pills in question must be considered as a preparation of opium,
and it, therefore, forbids the importation of this so-called medicine
except through its own agents, and the sale thereof excepting by the
regularly licensed opium farmers and such apothecaries and chemists
as are specially exempt from the provisions of the Opium Act. You
are hereby requested strictly to enforce the Government's decision
on this subject."

