"'My dear Charles, what was I about? Oh, yes, as an honest man I had
followed the dictates of my conscience; but it was too simple-minded on
my part to hope that the Government might, in the highest interests
of morality, be induced to forego even the smallest scrap of its
profits. I was a greenhorn indeed to sit down and pen such a document
at a time when money--money--money--is the only question with the
Government and money-scraping seems to be our highest national virtue;
while men resolutely close their eyes to the dirty gutters out of
which it is raked together.

"'Very soon after, indeed by the very next mail, I received a reply to
my proposal. It ran thus: "It is not the intention of the Government
to discuss the proposal contained in your letter of the --th. The
pills in question must have lately found their way into other parts
of the island as well as into Batavia. Ostensibly they are designed
to wean the smokers from the excessive use of opium; but in reality
they only serve to procure that indulgence at a much cheaper rate
for those who, either from want of means or for other reasons,
cannot procure the drug from the legitimate source. While you were
occupying the post of controller in the district of Santjoemeh we
had good reason to suspect that, in your official capacity, you were
not disinclined to evade--we are willing to believe from the best
motives--the Government regulations with regard to the sale of opium;
and that you thus contributed to diminish the public revenue. Your last
letter incontestably proves that you are pursuing the same practices
now. On a public servant who entertains such views of his duty,
the Government cannot look with much favour; and were it not that
I am fully persuaded that you are actuated by the very best motives
in pursuing your present line of conduct, and that your well-known
family relations make me very loth to adopt decided measures, I would
at once propose your dismissal as a man unfit for the public service. I
have directed the Governor carefully to watch your proceedings and to
report immediately to head-quarters the first failure of duty on your
part that may come under his notice. I need hardly tell you that the
State requires from its servants a very different conception of duty
from that of lending a willing ear to every foolish sentiment of morbid
philanthropy; and that, therefore, if you give any further cause for
dissatisfaction you must not reckon upon any consideration whatever."'"

