"It is disgraceful!" exclaimed Grenits as soon as van Nerekool
ceased reading. "A noble-hearted fellow like William Verstork to be
so shamefully treated!"

"Oh, that opium, that opium!" continued Grashuis no less indignantly
than his friend, "it seems to taint the very life-blood of our
nation. Has it then come to this that we are to be deprived of every
means of stemming the national evil?"

"Yes, it is indeed disgraceful!" chimed in van Beneden.

"But, my friends," objected van Rheijn, "are you not rather one-sided
in your view of the matter and rather too hasty in forming an
opinion? May there not be some truth in what the Government alleges
and might not these pills, under the pretence of being a cure, only
be another means for extending the illicit traffic in opium?"

"Oh, Edward!" exclaimed van Nerekool, "how can you bring yourself to
suspect William Verstork of illicit traffic?"

"And the Netherland's Missionary Society?" added Grashuis.

"Pardon me, my friends," cried van Rheijn as he passionately jumped
up from his chair. "You misunderstand me entirely, I never meant to
suggest anything of the kind. I am just as much convinced as any of
you can be that both William Verstork and our missionaries are acting
in this matter with the most perfect good faith and honour. I was not
for an instant thinking of them when I spoke. But might not men without
principle and without honour, under cover of these wholesome pills,
introduce others made of pure opium and thus defraud the revenue?"

"Well," said Grenits doubtfully, "such a thing might perhaps come
to pass."

"And is it not then right and proper," continued van Rheijn, "that
the Government should guard against possible fraud? Under cover of
these pills the opium plague might conceivably attain to altogether
extravagant dimensions."

"Without the treasury being one penny the better for it," hastily
interposed Grashuis. "So long as the revenue is kept up they are not
so over squeamish in Government circles about the abuse of opium. Quite
the contrary."

