"And then Verstork's proposal to admit only the pills sent out by the
Missionary Society was fair enough," added Grenits. "It would not
be very difficult to protect and encourage the use of the medicine
and at the same time guard against adulteration or fraud. But no,"
he continued, "that is evidently not what the Government wants. Not
one poor scruple must be taken from the dose of poison which is, in
a measure, forced upon the people, and every effort to mitigate the
evil must, in spite of the twaddle and cant at the Hague, be sternly
repressed. My friends, you all recollect our discussions on that
subject. In the face of what we have heard and seen can anyone deny
or doubt that opium lies as a curse upon our poor Indian possessions?"

For a few moments the young men sat silently gazing on the floor
before them. Alas no! that plain fact could not be denied--all were
equally convinced of its truth.

"Yes, that opium!" sighed van Beneden. "Friends, let us change our
ground without, however, quitting our subject. It would be a pity to
do so just now--just now that we five men are assembled here together
in Santjoemeh to protest against opium, while, at the same moment,
yonder, the trumpets are braying and the cannon is roaring in homage
to the millions which that same opium has wrung from the people. At
the present moment the pig-tailed children of the Celestial empire
are gathered together in perfect harmony and concord around their Tao
Peh Kong; but such is not always the case. Circumstances sometimes
arise which kindle the bitterest animosities between these Chinese
brethren. As I was looking through a pile of papers, not very long
ago, I happened to come upon a pretty quarrel which greatly interested
me and gave me a deep insight, from another point of view, into the
vicious circle in which the question of opium farming revolves. We are
now sitting here so cosily and quietly together that I should like to
take advantage of this favourable opportunity to tell you the story. I
must only beg of you that you will pay no heed either to the names,
the places or the dates I may use. I have no right to incriminate the
actors in my tale, some of whom are still living. On the other hand,
my story would lack interest and vividness were I to speak of N or
P and introduce places as X or Y. I shall therefore take the liberty
of introducing fictitious names. I beg you will bear that in mind.

