"In the year--let us put it at ten years ago--there existed in the
capital of one of Java's Residences--supposing we say in Santjoemeh--a
mighty opium company, to which we will give the name of Hok Bie. This
company Hok Bie had cast a covetous eye upon the monopoly in a district
adjoining to Santjoemeh, which we will call Bengawan. But this same
district had also attracted the attention of a young Chinaman called
Tio Siong Mo. This young man was very wealthy, although he had not
as many millions at command as had the company Hok Bie.

"It would lead me too far afield," continued van Beneden, "were I
to describe to you all the intrigues and plots which were set on
foot, all the bribery and corruption which took place on both sides,
to get possession of the coveted prize. Suffice it to say that the
antagonists exerted their utmost powers; for Bengawan was a prize
indeed. From the opium farmers' point of view it was the fattest
district in all Java--and so it is now, unless I am much mistaken,
and at present counts the greatest number of opium dens--though I
hardly need add, as a corollary, that it contains the most wretched
and poverty-stricken population in the island.

"At first it seemed as if the company Hok Bie would carry all before
it; for it managed to cast serious doubts upon the solvency and credit
of its adversary's sureties, and if they could be discredited, Tio
Siong Mo would be excluded from the contest altogether.

"Tio Siong Mo, however, held firm, he fought the bribers with their
own weapons; and he found means, somehow or other, to re-establish
the credit of his sureties. How? You will perhaps be able to give a
shrewd guess at that."

"Oh, yes, yes, go on!" cried Grenits, "that is as clear as the sun
at noonday."

"Well then, that dodge having failed, the company Hok Bie began to
look round for other means of attack. First it endeavoured to bribe
Tio Siong Mo's sureties and to induce them to declare themselves
bankrupts; but that did not succeed. Next it made an offer to its
competitor of half a million of guilders in cash if he would retire
from the contest. Half a million! It was a liberal bid, there was no
denying that. But no! Tio Siong Mo did not waver a single instant,
he flatly refused the tempting offer; for the monopoly of Bengawan
was worth a much larger sum of money than that.

