"On the day of the sale five competitors came forward; but three of
these very soon dropped out of the bidding, and the representative
of the company Hok Bie and Tio Siong Mo were left to fight out the
matter between them.

"I will not weary you by describing the contest, which was carried
on at one time with what seemed the wildest recklessness and at
another with the most cunning circumspection. There were some very
exciting passages in the battle. At length Hok Bie bid eighty thousand
guilders."

"Eighty thousand?" exclaimed van Rheijn. "Why, that is not a very
large sum."

"A month, a month, my dear fellow!" said van Beneden, correcting him.

"Well, a month, so be it," resumed van Rheijn; "that comes to only
nine hundred and sixty thousand guilders a year. Here in Santjoemeh--!"

"For those days it was an exorbitant price," continued van Beneden,
"I know all about it, and I can assure you it was an extravagantly
high price."

"Well, and what happened then?" asked van Nerekool.

"The representative of Hok Bie had called out eighty thousand,
thinking by that bid to disconcert and crush his opponent, for he
had made a tremendous leap from sixty to eighty."

"The deuce!" cried van Rheijn, "and then?"

"Tio Siong Mo lost not an instant; but with the utmost coolness he
said: 'Another thousand.'

"He spoke these words in a tone of voice which seemed to convey that
he simply intended to add a thousand to whatever bid the other party
might make.

"Hok Bie's representative looked blue; that last bold jump of his
had brought him to the end of his tether--he was not empowered to go
further. The resident who presided encouraged the competitors to go
on. But no one spoke.

"At length was heard the 'third time,' accompanied by the fall of
the hammer, and Tio Siong Mo had secured the monopoly. It was a large
sum to pay merely for the contract; but the young Chinaman laughed in
his sleeve. He knew well enough that in the dessa Bengawan he could
screw double that amount out of it. But, as you will see, he reckoned
without his host. The company Hok Bie was furious at having thus been
worsted, and resolved to have its revenge. At the very first meeting
of the directors four hundred thousand guilders were voted, not only
to ensure Tio Siong Mo's fall, but even to secure him a comfortable
little nook in the State prison. Two of the oldest members of the
board undertook the job."

