"By Jove!" cried Grenits, who was thoroughly interested in the
story. As a merchant, such a piece of business was quite in his line,
and he pricked his ears as a young race-horse, impatient for the start,
dilates his quivering nostrils. "By Jove, I am anxious to hear how
they managed that."

"They managed it very simply, indeed," continued van Beneden,
"though it cost them a mint of money. But when it is a question of
gratifying his passions, or of pampering his vanity your Chinaman is
by no means stingy."

"No," said Grenits, "nor yet when it comes to throwing out a sprat
to catch a mackerel."

"Agreed," said van Beneden; "but now let me go on, or else we shall
not get to the end of the story to-night."

"Just so," assented Edward van Rheijn. "Make what haste you can;
for I have also my little opium tale to tell--and something else
besides that."

"Very good! August, drive ahead!" said Grenits.

"There were at that time a couple of opium districts which were
contiguous to Bengawan, and which lay along the Java sea. Upon these
the company Hok Bie at once flung itself, the monopoly not having as
yet been granted for them."

"Yes, of course," remarked van Rheijn, "having lost the rich district
of Bengawan, a couple of rather more meagre ones would form an
agreeable compensation."

"Upon these," continued van Beneden, not heeding his friend's
interruption, "the company Hok Bie greedily flung itself, and for
the opium privilege of those two districts, it paid the sum of 40,000
guilders a month; though it was clear as day that at such a price it
must incur a heavy loss."

"What then could it have been about to offer the money?" asked van
Nerekool.

"The company's object was to get a large strip of the Java sea under
its control."

"Oho!" exclaimed Grenits and van Rheijn in a breath--A light was
beginning to dawn upon them.

"Do you fellows now begin to understand?" asked August with a broad
smile. "That's a good job.

"You must know that the Residence Bengawan is bounded on the north
by these two districts. The consequences of this acquisition soon
began to show themselves. The coast of the Java sea lay open to the
company Hok Bie, and smugglers soon began to ply diligently between
that coast and Singapore. The contraband very soon found its way
through the two districts to the interior, so that presently Bengawan
was literally flooded with smuggled opium. To such an extent was this
contraband trade carried on, that the drug was readily sold for about
one half-penny, a price at which the farmer could not possibly afford
to sell it.

