"Then Tio Siong Mo attempted to brazen it out. He began by punctually
meeting his obligations, and every month paid the contract money into
the treasury. He did this, poor fellow, in the hope that the European
authorities would assist him and protect him against this illicit
trade which was robbing the revenue as well as himself. And what were
the effects of all his representations to the Government--'Schwamm
darüber'--Even where he did obtain some kind of co-operation from some
chief official, he got no support whatever from the subordinates. They
all, to a single man, sided with the much more powerful company Hok
Bie, which never left any service unrewarded.

"These punctual payments were all very well so long as Tio Siong Mo
could find the money. But, however well lined his chest might be,
it was with him--as it always must be where much is going out and
little or nothing coming in--a mere question of time.

"In the latter half of the second year of the contract, Tio Siong Mo
was declared a bankrupt. He could not possibly cover his expenses,
and by that time had fallen in arrears and owed a colossal sum to
the treasury, a debt of which little or nothing was ever recovered,
because, at the critical moment, his sureties had absconded to
Singapore. So cleverly did these worthies dispose of their property,
that they left nothing but debts behind them.

"'The Dutch Government wields a sword without mercy,' said the
financial secretary; and that same Government which, by taking proper
measures in its own interest as well as in the interest of their
farmer, might have put a stop to smuggling on anything like a large
scale, but had neglected to do so--that same Government now clapped
poor Tio Siong Mo into prison. There he lingered for several years,
and quite lately he has been released, it being evident that nothing
was to be got out of him. We sometimes say, with regard to horses, that
they who earn the corn do not always get it; and this episode I think
shows that they who are punished are not always the real culprits."

