"But what ultimately became of the Bengawan contract after the farmer's
bankruptcy?" asked van Rheijn, curiously.

"Of course," resumed van Beneden, "the district had to be put up again
after Tio Siong Mo's failure. Who were the new farmers the papers do
not tell me; but, from a whining lamentation uttered by the financial
secretary, in which he exhorts the judges to the utmost rigour against
the luckless bankrupt, it appears that the whole thing only produced
forty-one thousand guilders. Thus the State, in addition to the large
sum owing by Tio Siong Mo, lost a clear sum of forty thousand guilders
a month."

"That's the style!" exclaimed Grenits, "I wish such a thing as
that would happen regularly, year by year, in all the districts,
then some means would speedily be found to put an end to the opium
traffic altogether."

"And what became of the two coast districts, which the company Hok
Bie had taken?" asked van Rheijn, very anxious to get to the bottom
of the story.

"What could the company make of them? they could be worked only at a
loss, and, as soon as the object it had in view was obtained, it made
over the contract to some other company--no doubt at considerable
loss. At least Hok Bie would have no more to do with them."

"And the moral of the story is?" asked Leendert Grashuis.

"Why, simply this," said Theodoor Grenits, "that from whatever point
of view you look at the opium-farming system, you are sure to catch
sight of something particularly loathsome and disgusting."

"And that such a rotten system should form one of the principal
sources of the Netherlands' colonial revenue!"

"Yes," assented van Beneden. "In these latter days it has indeed
been raised to that dignity by men in office, into whose hands the
indifference of our Dutch nation has placed unlimited power."








CHAPTER XXXVIII.

FURTHER FACTS ABOUT OPIUM. BIRDS-NESTING AT KARANG BOLLONG.


These were most unpalatable facts for our friends to listen to. But,
however painful they might be, and however offensive to the ear of a
patriotic Dutchman, yet they were facts which could neither be ignored
nor explained away. Very gravely and very sadly the five young men sat
slowly rocking themselves in their chairs and watching the wreaths
of blue smoke as they curled upwards from their manillas. Thus they
passed some time in silent thought, when suddenly, in the distance
were heard fresh volleys of musketry, redoubled banging of mertjons,
and this noise accompanied by loud bursts of cheering repeated again
and again, which, arising within the banqueting hall, was taken up by
the thousands of natives who stood without waiting for the display
of fireworks. That crescendo in the festive din was occasioned no
doubt by Lim Yang Bing's eloquent speech in honour of Resident van
Gulpendam. "Sabieio, fill the glasses!" cried van Nerekool to his
servant, making an effort to shake off the gloomy thoughts which
oppressed him, and which not even van Beneden's story had been able
to dissipate.

