For the next few minutes they all sat listening to the disturbance
outside, and when at length the noise had died away, van Rheijn
re-opened the conversation.

"You told us just now, my dear August, that Tio Siong Mo had found
no co-operation or support among the inferior class of officials; but
that these, on the contrary, sided with the more powerful company Hok
Bie. Now I take it for granted that you did not talk merely at random;
but that you had some sufficient grounds for saying what you did. One
thing, however, is not quite clear to me, and that is whether you
meant that accusation to apply to the native opium-officials or to
the Europeans. You will grant me, I suppose, that the accusation is
a rather serious one."

Van Beneden did not raise his eyes, he drew a deep breath. At length
after an interval of a few seconds, he said:

"Yes, you are perfectly right, the charge is undoubtedly a serious
one. As a lawyer I am perfectly aware of that; and you were
quite right also in presuming that I did not utter it without due
consideration. The question you now ask me is this: 'To whom do you
intend this grave censure to apply?' I might answer with perfect
truth, that I apply it to native and European officials alike. But
to be absolutely candid I ought to go further and confess that,
when I spoke, I was aiming specially at the European officers."

"August!" cried van Rheijn, evidently much moved at his friend's
earnestness and sincerity. "May you not be taking too partial and
unfair a view of the situation?"

"My dear fellow," replied van Beneden, "just listen to what I am
about to tell you, and then I will leave you to judge for yourself--

"Among the mass of documents relating to this Tio Siong Mo's business,
I came upon some remarks made by a very highly placed official, a man
perfectly competent to form a correct opinion; and who had, in fact,
been consulted on this very occasion. His remarks run thus:

"'The salaries paid to the officials who are employed in checking the
trade in contraband opium are wholly insufficient; and in the discharge
of their most arduous duties, these public servants receive no support
at all. The consequence of this is, that hardly a single person who
is properly qualified for the work will ever offer his services. In
what manner, then, are those places filled? Why, in the simplest manner
possible. Individuals are appointed quite at random and are then placed
under the orders of some Resident or other. These poor creatures, who,
as a general rule, have no very brilliant antecedents to boast of,
and who know little or nothing of the opium trade, receive a salary
of 150 guilders (£12 10s.) a month, and are stationed at such points
as the smugglers are most likely to resort to. It follows, of course,
from the nature of the case that these stations are far away from any
inhabited spot, generally in the heart of some swamp or in the all but
impenetrable jungle on the north coast of Java. In such localities
there can be no question of a house; and some of these men have to
hire a small bamboo hut at the rate of 25 or 30 guilders a month,
or else they run up a kind of rough shanty at their own expense. They
have no staff whatever--there being no money to provide one--and thus,
on an emergency, they have to apply for help to the chiefs of the
nearest dessas, and that is very much like going to the devil for
confession. Moreover, the Residents compel these people to keep two
horses, which animals they must purchase for themselves, and they have
to pay 10 guilders a month at least for forage for each horse. If now
we take into consideration deductions for widows' and orphans' fund,
then these wretched creatures receive only about 102 guilders a month,
out of which they must find house rent and servants' wages, leaving
them, say 67 guilders to live upon, to find themselves in dress,
and to keep their often numerous families. Now, the question is,
how can such persons manage to live at all in even the most frugal
manner? How do they manage to keep body and soul together? They have
no other resource than to apply to the opium-farmer for assistance,
and in him they always find a most obliging money-lender. The whole
question, then, comes to this: Are not such officers forced by mere
pressure of circumstances to squeeze as much out of their wretched
billet as can be got out of it?'

