"And thus, you see, my dear Edward, that all these men either are,
or very soon get to be, under the thumb of the opium-farmers, and
the consequences of such a state of things are, you must grant,
inevitable. By the side of the note I read to you just now, I found
a list--it was a long list--of the names of such individuals as,
either for neglect of duty or for having aided and abetted the
smugglers, had been dismissed the service. There were others who
were mere puppets in the farmers' hands, and who could not venture
on the slightest remonstrance if the farmer himself was implicated
in the smuggling trade. Then there was a third--alas! the list was a
very short one--of officials who undertook to perform their duties
conscientiously, and who, looking upon a smuggler as a smuggler,
whether he happened to be an opium-farmer or not, were determined to
put down the illegal traffic whoever might be engaged in it. I regret,
however, to have to add that those names very quickly disappear from
the scene. The Residents soon found fault with such men--they had no
tact--no management--in fact, some ground of complaint was sure to
be found. And then, of course, the Government does not like to see
the farmers, so long as they pay their contract money regularly into
the treasury, annoyed by opposition of any kind."

"But," exclaimed Grenits, somewhat warmly, "what becomes, at that rate,
of the assertion made over and over in Parliament by the Colonial
Secretary, that the abuse of opium is in every possible way kept in
check? As far as I can make out from your statement, the Government
seems, indirectly of course, actually to protect the smuggling by
the farmers, and these, equally of course, in order to dispose of
their contraband, press the drug by all means, legal or illegal,
upon the helpless population."

"The sum and substance of all I have told you is simply this," said
van Beneden. "No man who has the slightest respect for himself can
or will undertake any office for the suppression of opium smuggling,
and therefore a lower class of people must be employed, and thence,
you see, it becomes possible for the tricks and dodges of such
companies as Hok Bie to succeed."

