"By Jove!" cried van Nerekool, "that's another nice little glimpse
into the charming situation which the system of opium-farming
has created. Come! now we are about it, we had better exhaust the
unsavoury subject as far as we can. Did you not say just now, van
Rheijn, that you also had an opium tale to tell?"

"Oh, yes," replied Edward, "and something else besides that."

"Indeed!" said Grashuis; "go on then. I thought I was pretty well
informed; but every moment I am making fresh discoveries."

"Now, gentlemen," said van Nerekool, "are you all furnished with
cigars? Van Rheijn, we are waiting to hear you."

"I have had a letter from Murowski," began van Rheijn.

"From Murowski?" cried one.

"From our Pole?"

"From our doctor?"

"Yes, gentlemen, from our expert at the scientific opium-smoke. Now,
as his letter contains very few, if any, secrets, and that moreover it
is addressed to us in general, I need not follow our host's example;
and I will read it to you in full."

"But, my dear fellow," said Grenits, "it is getting late, nearly nine
o'clock. Is there anything in that letter about butterflies?"

"Oh, yes."

"And about beetles and snakes?"

"Oh yes, certainly."

"Then, I say! heaven help us, those entomologists are so long-winded;
they don't spare you a single claw, not an antenna, not a shard!"

"Oh, you won't find it so bad as all that," laughed van Rheijn;
"just listen."

"'My dear friend, in your last letter you ask me how I pass the
time at Gombong. At first, I must confess, it was tedious work and
everything looked very black. You know, I was rather smitten with
Agatha van Bemmelen, and I have reason to flatter myself that she
used not to shut her little peepers very hard when she happened to
meet me at Santjoemeh. So, when I first came here, my thoughts ran
entirely on her; I detested my new place, and cursed the man who had
played me the scurvy trick of having me transferred. Of entomology
there was no question. Two or three times I went out and tried
to get some specimens, but I failed woefully. Wherever I went, in
whatever direction I took my walks, there was but one picture before
my eyes--the image of my Agatha's sparkling eyes and my Agatha's
rosy cheeks.

