"'And Heaven only knows how much paper I might have wasted had not
suddenly the news reached me that my adored Agatha was engaged, and
was, indeed, on the point of being married. Then I crumpled up all my
poetical effusions, and that very evening made a nice little fire of
them. They were of some use in that way in keeping off the mosquitoes
and other such like vermin. I invited all the officers of the garrison
to a jolly good champagne supper; and, after having passed a night
in which I rivalled the Seven Sleepers of holy memory--I arose next
morning a new man--perfectly cured!--'"

"That Pole is a practical fellow," cried Grashuis. "I say, Charlie,
you should take a leaf out of his book!"

"'Thereupon I resumed my insect hunting, and then, for the first time,
it dawned upon me that the hemiptera, the diptera, the hymenoptera,
the lepidoptera, the coleoptera--'"

"I say, I say!" cried Grenits, "might you not skip all these barbarous
words. That a Pole like Murowski makes use of them is excusable
perhaps--he knows no better; but that he should inflict them upon
us!--it is unpardonable."

"Oh, well!" replied van Rheijn, "I have almost done--

"'--The coleoptera, the crustaceans are really our best and truest
friends, and that they would, after all, afford me the most wholesome
recreation. I happened to be in luck's way. Patients there were none,
and, to make assurance doubly sure, a medical officer, and therefore a
colleague of mine, had arrived here in Gombong. He had obtained three
months' leave, and, in this mild and singularly equable climate,
he hoped to find a cure for an incipient liver-complaint. This
gentleman was willing, he was indeed quite eager, to take my place in
any unforeseen emergency, if it were only to break the monotony of
his existence out here. I quickly availed myself of this favourable
opportunity to ask our military chief for eight days' leave to go
on a trip into the Karang Bollong mountains and give myself up to my
passion for entomology.

