"'"By all means," said the kind-hearted captain, "by all means, you
go and catch butterflies and snoutbeetles. Only see that in those
wild mountain districts you don't come to grief; and, mind you,
be back again in time."

"'An hour after, I had shouldered my gun, slung on my game-bag; and,
with the tin box for my collection strapped to my back, I was on the
war-path, my servant following with the other necessaries. From Gombong
I marched through the dessas Karang djah, Ringodono and Pringtoetoel,
and there I was in the heart of the mountain country. That journey I
did not make in a single day; but I took my time, and spent two days
in covering the ground.

"'I will not tire you with an account of my insect-hunt, that would,
in fact, be casting pearls before swine.'"

"Upon my word, that is a good one!" exclaimed Grenits, laughing. "Our
Pole is exquisitely polite!"

"Well," laughed van Rheijn, "he is paying you back in your own coin,
you remember what you said about 'barbarous words' just now. But let
me get on.

"'But yet I must tell you that my trip was very successful. I have
every reason to be satisfied; for among many other rare and valuable
specimens, I secured a fine Ulysses and a splendid Priamos. But
what will constitute the real glory of my collection is an Atlas,
a truly magnificent creature, which, with outspread wings, covers
an area of nearly a foot square. I will not however dwell on these
matters. I know you take no interest in them. No, no, I have a subject
to write upon which will prove much more attractive to yourself and
to your friends. Our experiment in opium-smoking has been haunting
me ever since I witnessed it; and I have by no means forgotten the
conversation we held on that occasion. What I then heard and saw has
opened my eyes and my ears, and has made me very attentive whenever the
opium question is mentioned. And, I must say, that I have here been
brought to the very spot where I am able to glean most interesting
information about the use of that drug. In my wanderings through
the Karang Bollong mountains, I have been brought into contact with
the gathering of the far-famed birds' nests. Whether you gentlemen
are acquainted with that source of the Dutch revenue, I know not;
but in order to come to the subject I wish to lay before you, that
is, the abuse of opium and the encouragement the Government gives to
that abuse, I must give you a short account of this most interesting
gathering of birds' nests. You must, for the present at least, take
my word for the truth of every syllable I write--'"

