"The deuce we must!" cried Grenits, "he is rather exacting!"

"I bet we shall have a lot of learned stuff inflicted upon us. The
prigs which the German Universities turn out can be pedantic to the
last degree."

"No fear," replied van Rheijn, "for my part I must say that I
have found in this letter, a great number of highly interesting
particulars. But I must get on.

"'The Karang Bollong mountain range is, as you are probably aware,
a spur of the Goenoeng Djampong which again forms the connecting link
between the Midangang mountains and the Goenoeng Batoer. The bulk
of these Karang Bollong mountains consists of extensive chalkbeds
which form the table-land known as Goenoeng Poleng; and, on the
side of the sea, these chalk-beds are surrounded by a broad band of
trachyte rock which rises perpendicularly out of the Indian Ocean. In
this massive wall of trachyte the ocean, with its mighty breakers
rolling in from the South Pole upon Java's coast, has washed numerous
holes or cavities, some of which extend to a considerable distance
underground. It is in the innermost recesses of these caves that men
find the nests of a certain kind of swallow which the natives call
manoek lawet, and to which the Zoologists give the name of hirundo
esculenta.'"

"Didn't I tell you so?" cried Grenits indignantly; "the Pole is
beginning already to bring in his Latin names. Heaven only can tell
what may be in store for us!"

"And what about me, then?" remarked van Rheijn. "I have had to read
the whole letter! You need not trouble yourself, that Latin will come
all right enough. I go on:

"'----give the name of hirundo esculenta. The nests consist of a slimy
substance which is found in the stomach of the birds. These little
swallows cover the spot in the rock they have selected for their nest
with an extremely fine coating of this gelatinous stuff. As soon as
this layer has dried and has had time to harden, they apply a second
coat, which again must have time to dry before they can proceed with
their building. And thus they go on gradually and layer by layer until
the nest is complete. When it is finished it looks like a saucer of
small diameter which has been broken in two with the line of fracture
cemented to the wall of stone. Thus these little nests consist of
a hardened gelatinous mass of a light yellow colour and which, when
they are of superior quality, ought to be somewhat transparent.'"

