"And the Chinese eat such trash as that and like it?" cried Grashuis
curling his lip in disgust.

"Do let me go on," said van Rheijn.

"'When soaked in water and properly cooked these nests are looked
upon by the Chinese as the rarest delicacy. A cup of broth made of
that gelatinous substance represents, in their estimation, the most
delicious beverage that can gratify the human palate. They ascribe
to this soup rare medicinal virtues and prize it as a never-failing
aphrodisiac. In my opinion this latter is the only quality which
gives value to the nests.'"

"And this again is the sort of thing out of which the Dutch Government
makes a revenue!" exclaimed Grenits. "It is a very lucky thing that
the ingathering of these nests can only be carried out on a small
scale, or else, no doubt, some means would be found to force this
kind of food upon such Chinese as do not, at present, crave for it;
just as the farmers do their utmost to drive the population into
their infamous opium-dens."

"'The gathering of these nests,'" continued van Rheijn still
reading Murowski's letter, "'takes place three times a year. The
first gathering begins in the latter part of April and is called
"Oedoean kesongo." The second begins in the middle of August and is
called "Oedoean telor," and the third, the "Oedoean kapat," takes
place in December. Now that kind of birdsnesting, my friends, is an
occupation which I very willingly leave to the Javanese who make it
their business. To gain the entrance of one of those caves they must
clamber down the perpendicular face of the rock along ladders. The
ladder, for instance, which leads to the mouth of the Djoembling cave
is only 660 feet long. My heart beat high with desire to make a trip
to these subterranean vaults. But--when I laid myself flat down and
got my head over the edge of the rock while a couple of Javanese were
holding on to my legs--when I saw that rottang ladder swinging hither
and thither in the breeze sometimes clinging to the wall and then again
curving inward and for a while lost to the eye. When, at a giddy depth
below, I saw the huge breakers come tumbling in and forming there
at the foot of the rocks a savage scene, a wild and whirling chaos
of spouting water, of dazzling foam and of blinding spray. When my
ear caught the hoarse thunder of their charge while I felt the very
stone under me quiver with the shock--then, I must confess a feeling
of sickening horror came over me; I started back involuntarily, and
nothing on earth could have induced me to plant my foot on the crazy
ladder which, a few moments ago, I had made up my mind to descend.

