"'From the mouth of the caves the Javanese have stretched a couple
of cables along the interior wall. The lower of these rottang-cables
serves as foot-hold, the upper is grasped in one hand, while with the
other hand, the man engaged in the work picks the birds' nests from the
rock. When the hand cannot reach them the man detaches them by means
of a long bamboo pole furnished with an iron hook, and as they fall he
has to catch them in a small hand net. As you may suppose, the taking
of these swallows' nests is an extremely perilous undertaking. First
to clamber down that ladder to an extreme depth along the perpendicular
face of the rock and dangling over that boiling sea, then to penetrate
into these holes into which the ocean thrusts its waves. In rough
weather the work has to be stopped altogether in many of the caves;
and, not unfrequently, it happens that the ropes are washed away and
the poor fellows who trust to them are dashed to pieces or miserably
drowned. You will ask then, perhaps, how can people be found to venture
on so hazardous an undertaking? You know, of course, that no race on
earth is more attached to its native soil than the Javanese. That
characteristic is found in this part of the island also. There is
perhaps no wilder and more ungrateful soil in this world than this
region in the Karang Bollong mountains. Nothing, or next to nothing,
can be made out of agriculture. The tiny rice-fields one meets with
here and there on the mountain slopes, are not worth mentioning;
and, as far as tradition reaches, the scanty population of this part
of Java has always supported itself and does still support itself,
by collecting these edible nests.

"'Whether they fared better or worse before the Dutch government
appropriated that source of income to itself, I have not been able to
ascertain. But one thing is certain, that the pay these poor wretches
receive from the Government is something worse than pitiful. I have
now lying before me a statement drawn up by an official in this part
of the country, from which I gather that, for every sack of 80 nests
delivered into the Government stores, the man who collects them gets a
sum of 15--let us put it down in words--of fifteen cents (about 3d.)!'"

