"Aye but," said Grashuis, "before we follow the grumblings of our
Pole any further, it would be well to know what is the commercial
value of those 80 nests."

"As a merchant," remarked Grenits, "I can at once supply you with the
information you require. The Chinese are always ready to give five
thousand guilders for a pikol of nests, and, since one hundred of them
weigh about one kattie and the pikol contains one hundred katties,
our Government receives four hundred guilders, while it sends the
poor devil of a native about his business with 15 cents! By Heaven
it is a crying shame!"

"But has not the Government other expenses to meet?" asked Grashuis.

"Allow me to continue," said van Rheijn, "I promise you an answer to
your question, August."

"All right, drive ahead!"

"'It is true,'" continued van Rheijn, "'that when a man has good luck
he may deliver 12 bags.'"

"That comes to one guilder eighty cents (about 3s.)," cried
Grenits! "and then he must be in luck! God help the poor fellow!"

"Now do not be constantly interrupting me!" cried Edward impatiently.

"'One must be a Javanese to encounter such perils for so miserable a
pittance; for, to realize that magnificent sum, the poor devil must
make several trips to the cave which has been assigned to him. The
shortest gathering always lasts three weeks, and the longest sometimes
goes on for more than two months. Now, how can the native be induced,
for such utterly inadequate pay, to face this perpetual and deadly
risk? I fancy I can see that question hovering on your lips, and
if you will bear with me for a few moments I will tell you. In
the first place the Government has secured the co-operation of the
native chiefs. You know what a dependent race are the Javanese, how
they trust implicitly to their chiefs, and these men are indeed paid
on a much more liberal scale. Where the actual worker receives his
three shillings, the loerah, for instance, is paid twenty guilders
(£1 13s. 4d.), besides a number of perquisites of all kinds, and
he receives this, mind you, merely for superintending the work,
as it is called. Yet it is probable that the respect and obedience
of even a Javanese would not endure such miserably inadequate pay,
and therefore the Government has devised another means of binding
these poor creatures hand and foot, and that means, my dear friends,
is--opium!

