"'I will not trouble you with all the superstitious fads which the
Government not only tolerates but pays for in the matter of this
gathering of birds' nests; nor will I speak of the idolatrous worship
of Njahi Ratoe Segoro Kidoel which precedes every expedition, and
which also is paid for out of the public purse. I will merely point
out to you the use which is made of opium, the pernicious effect of
which, when taken in anything like excessive quantities, you have
yourselves been able to observe.

"'Well then, let me tell you that in everything which has any relation
whatever to this gathering of nests the current coin is opium.

"'If the wajang and toppeng-players have to be sent for, five petty
chiefs and four dessa-folk are despatched to fetch them. For this
piece of service each of the former receives one kedawang, and each
of the latter half a kedawang of opium, the kedawang being equivalent
to about two matas. For the cleansing and clearing of the Goewah
Bollong loerahs and other chiefs are specially appointed, the former
receiving each two and the latter one kedawang of opium. The wajang
and toppeng-players receive on their arrival, sixteen kedawangs apiece
and four kedawangs for sadjen or offering, and, on their departure,
they are paid with a further present of sixteen kedawangs of opium.

"'In the Goewah Bollong a feast is always held before the commencement
of the expeditions; and for this feast, a certain number of bullocks
and one goat have to be killed. For the slaughtering of each of these
animals eight kedawangs of opium are paid. For each quarter of the
slaughtered animals which must be brought in and carried by one petty
chief and two dessa men, the chief is paid one, and the men have half
a kedawang of opium apiece. When the ladders are brought to the edge
of the cliff, a ceremony which requires two chiefs and two men, the
former receive one kedawang, and the latter half a kedawang of opium.

"'But I have not finished yet, the abuse of opium goes much further
than that. My friends, I beg you have patience and read on.

