"'As I told you, I had started some time before the break of day and
had got some distance from the dessa Ajo when the dawn began to tinge
the entire mountain range of Karang Bollong. My path was not a very
pleasant one to travel along; for it took me right across all the
ravines which run down from the heights. These are funnel-shaped,
exceedingly tortuous; and twisting and turning in all directions
they run down to the plain at the foot of the range, in which the
Kali Djetis flows onward to the sea.

"'As gradually I mounted higher and higher, the panorama stretched
out at my feet became more and more imposing. The fresh invigorating
morning air and the truly magnificent scenery about me, filled me
with delight; and every now and then I actually forgot my passion
for butterflies wholly absorbed as I was in the glories which lay
around me.

"'At length I gained a ridge between two pretty deep ravines, and I
was stopping for a few moments to regain my breath after the exertion
of climbing the steep ascent up which my path had led me. In both
these ravines little brooks were gurgling. They were mere threads of
water hurrying down the Goenoeng Poleng, and it was refreshing to look
upon them as they frisked and danced and foamed along their strange
zig-zag course. From the eminence on which I then stood, they looked
like ribbons of silver tape unconsciously displaying their beauty to
the morning air. The ravine which I had just left was strewn with
big blocks of trachyte flung about in confusion, great masses of
ruin detached, no doubt, from the central range. Such was the case
also in the other ravine into which I was preparing to descend;
but between the boulders and scanty shrubs, my eye suddenly caught
the attap-roof of a Javanese house. From the place where I stood,
I could catch sight only of the front verandah; but yet that small
hut, situated there in the wild and lonely mountain range and at
some distance from the dessa Ajo, arrested my attention. Can it be
some misanthropist, I thought, who is living there so far away from
the haunts of men? Through an open window, my eye could penetrate one
of the rooms in the hut, and I thought I saw a snow-white bed-curtain
waving to and fro under the influence of the morning breeze; I fancied
also that I could distinguish a chair. Now all this greatly puzzled
me; for your Javanese, as a rule, does not indulge in such luxuries,
and, if he makes use of a curtain at all, he generally selects one
of some gaudily coloured material.'"

