Van Rheijn paused for a moment or two to take a drink of beer, and in
doing so he cast a penetrating look upon Charles van Nerekool. The
latter was sitting in his chair listlessly rocking himself up and
down, and had very much the appearance of a man who listens but whose
thoughts are travelling elsewhere.

"You are not listening to me, Charles," he cried! At this abrupt
address van Nerekool started up out of his reverie.

"I?" he asked in confusion.

"Now, you see!" continued van Rheijn with a laugh, "while I am wasting
my breath to get to the end of Murowski's budget, our friend the
judge there is sitting in a brown study, his thoughts wandering heaven
knows where, but certainly nowhere near the dessa Ajo. But wait a bit,
you fellows, mark my words, you will see a change soon. The part most
interesting to him is just coming. Now listen."

Van Nerekool shook his head and smiled incredulously, he puffed hard
at his cigar, sat up straight in his chair and disposed himself to
listen with concentrated attention.

Van Rheijn went on reading:

"'But, while I was thus standing, gazing and pondering, I heard far,
far away beneath my feet, a noise of laughing, giggling and playing--in
fact, the silvery tones of two girls' voices.

"'I stretched out my neck and cautiously peered about to find out,
if possible, from whence those pleasant sounds proceeded; but it
was in vain, I could discover nothing. I noticed, however, that the
foaming brook beneath me took a very sharp turn, and that close
to its side grew a large Wariengien tree, whose massive foliage
defied every inquisitive look; while, at the same time, a pretty
little clump of shrubs shut out the view on either side. Meanwhile,
the tittering and laughing went on, mingled every now and then with
a playful little shriek, accompanied by the sound of plunging and
splashing of water. Then it dawned upon me that yonder in that clear
mountain stream, some girls were amusing themselves with bathing. What
shall I say in excuse of my indiscretion? I suppose the best, in
fact the only excuse I can offer, is that a man is neither a stock
nor a stone. My road, moreover, led straight to the attractive spot;
and thus, without, I fear, giving much thought to what I was doing,
I found myself on the way to emulate Actaeon in his fatal curiosity,
never in the least expecting to spy out a Diana.

