"'So I cautiously clambered down the slopes, taking, as you may
suppose, the most particular care not to make the least noise which
might disturb the bathing nymphs. For a little while my path ran down
directly to the Wariengien tree, which overshadowed a considerable
area. If the course of the narrow path had only continued in that
direction a little longer it must have brought me to the very foot of
the tree. But, suddenly, I came upon a large rock, and there the road
ran to the left and seemed to shorten the way by leading straight to
another bend in the creek. Most probably this led to some ford, for
I could see the path on the other side of the brook, running up the
side of the ravine. Now, what was I to do? I ought, like a good boy,
to have followed the path no doubt; but my curiosity was stimulated
by the splashing and laughing, which now seemed much nearer to me
than before. I confess, the temptation was too great, and I left the
path in order to get up to the Wariengien tree. Good luck seemed to
favour me. From the rock which barred the road I could see a gentle
slope thickly overgrown with bushes. In these numberless butterflies
were fluttering about; but, will you believe me? I never so much as
gave them a look or a thought I had left my tin box and my net behind
at the foot of the rock so as to be quite free in my movements. Like
some Dajak or some Alfoer of Papua I stole along from bush to bush.'"

The young men burst out into a loud shout of laughter.

"I can see our Pole," laughed Grenits, "sneaking along like an Alfoer,
in something like Adam's costume, up to the bathers."

"Yes," said van Rheijn, laughing as heartily as the others, "with
only an ewah round his loins.

"But pray let me go on, we are coming to the most interesting and
most important part. Are you listening to me, Charles?"

"I am not losing a single syllable," said the latter, moving somewhat
uneasily in his chair. "Do make haste."

"'--From bush to bush, and I got as near as I possibly could. At
length I found myself standing before a kind of hedge which grew
around the Wariengien, and made it impossible for me to advance any
further. The magnificent wild-fig tree stood on the edge of an oval
water-basin, which might have been washed out by the power of the
stream, or might have been hewn by the hand of man out of the mass of
gray trachyte rock. The pool itself appeared to be about 25 yards long,
and perhaps 15 yards broad, and the heavy crown of the Wariengien cast
a pleasant shadow right over it. It was fed from the brook of which,
in fact, it formed a part, and the water, though deep, was so bright
and clear that even the smallest pebbles could be seen distinctly at
the bottom. These details, you must know, have only lately occurred
to me; at that moment I had no time to pay any particular attention
to them, something very different was engrossing my thoughts. For,
in the centre of the pool, of which from my position I could survey
about twenty feet, were swimming and splashing and frisking about two
female forms. How shall I describe to you what I saw and what I felt
without too painfully affecting one of your friends.'"

