Here Edward stole another glance at his friend van Nerekool.

"Go on, go on!" cried the latter almost passionately as he caught
the look.

"'Two female forms. Both had on the usual bathing dress of Javanese
women, that is the sarong. You know how prettily, and how modestly too,
the Indian beauties can coquet with that rather scanty garment--how
they draw it up and fasten it above the bosom; and, I presume, you
can imagine how such a garment, when wet through and closely clinging
to the limbs, rather serves to heighten than to veil the charms it
is intended to conceal. That, however, I will leave to your fertile
imaginations. Both girls were extremely beautiful, though each had her
own style of beauty. One of them was decidedly a Javanese, the nose
slightly turned up, the round cheeks and somewhat full lips, in fact
the entire face, bore unmistakably the stamp of her nationality. For a
few moments she stood still in a somewhat shallow part of the pool, and
busied herself in readjusting her sarong, which had got rather loose
in swimming. As she did so I could at once perceive that the young
woman I had before me was in what is called an interesting condition.'"

Once again van Rheijn paused for an instant and shot a quick glance
at van Nerekool.

The latter sat in his chair literally panting with excitement, and
taking in every word with the most eager attention.

"Go on! Go on!" he murmured.

"'The other was altogether of much slimmer build. Her bust, which the
wet sarong could hardly conceal, showed that it had been in contact
with the European corset, and her features proclaimed her of totally
different race from her companion. Had the skin not been brown I should
at once have pronounced her to be a European, especially as her hair,
though jet-black, was silky, and fell around her as a mantle, and,
while she was swimming, floated on the water behind in a mass of wavy
curls. Then, I thought, I could trace something of Arabian origin in
the fair creature I saw moving in the crystal stream. Arabian! why
that could not be; for at the very same moment I thought I recognised
her very features.

