"'My friends, I am utterly unable to describe to you the lovely scene
I was just then gazing upon. No pen is eloquent enough for that. It
would need the brush of some great artist to catch the glow and colour
of that entrancing view.

"'Quite unconscious that, in that lonely pool far away from any human
dwelling, and in the recesses of such a wilderness, any indiscreet eye
was watching them--the two girls, like real water nymphs, were gaily
disporting themselves. They pursued one another, trying to duck each
other in the stream, while they had the greatest trouble to prevent
their sarongs from getting loose and falling down. That game lasted
a considerable time, it seemed as if the pretty creatures could not
make up their mind to leave the cool refreshing stream. At length the
slimmer of the two girls said: "Come, baboe, it is time to go home."'"

"Ha, ha, it was Malay they were speaking and not Javanese at
all!" remarked Grashuis.

"No, no," replied Edward, glancing uneasily at van Nerekool, "it was
not Javanese; but let me read on, we are now coming to the dénouement.

"'The fair swimmer got to the side of the pool and sat down on
the rocky bank allowing her little feet to paddle in the water. She
presently began to wring out her mass of hair and, as she was sitting
with her face turned away from me, from the position I occupied I
could only catch a glimpse of part of her back as she lifted up her
arms to tie up her hair. Was it the light in my eyes? Was it all
a mere delusion? Did my eyes play me false altogether? I began to
think that her back was not nearly so dark as her face, her neck and
her hands. Puzzled beyond measure I was determined to get a better
view. I grasped a branch of one of the shrubs which were around me,
I hoisted myself up and bent forward as far as I could! Alas!--no,
rather let me say thank God!--in making that movement I slipped. A
big lump of stone, dislodged, no doubt, by the motion of my feet,
went rolling down the slope and fell down plump into the water to the
right of and close beside the fair bather. It was just by the merest
chance that I did not tumble in myself, what a fright the poor little
dear would have been in! It was bad enough as it was. At the splash
made by the stone the girl uttered a cry of terror, she suddenly
moved to the left and started to fly. In doing so her sarong must
have hitched in some projecting stone, and--

