"What do you intend to do?" asked van Beneden.

"What I intend to do? Why, to-morrow morning at daybreak I am off--I
will--!"

"My dear fellow," said Grashuis, restraining, as well as he could, his
friend's impatience and excitement, "now, pray, do not be in a hurry."

"How can you talk such nonsense!" cried van Nerekool--"Do not be in
a hurry!--And what if meanwhile she should again disappear?"

"I do not think," remarked van Rheijn, "that there is much danger
of that. I suppose the girls have by this time got over their
fright--indeed there was not much to terrify them--and as they have
probably not seen any one since of whom they can have the least
suspicion, they will come to the conclusion that they were scared by
a false alarm. I do not think they will for a moment think of leaving
that lonely spot."

"My dear friends," said van Beneden, "I believe the very best thing
we can do at present is to go to bed. It is now late, and we ought
to have time to think this matter over. At all events, Charles must
certainly not think of starting to-morrow morning; by doing so he
would spoil his whole career. A man in his position must not run away
from his post as a deserter."

"Yes," said Charles, "you fellows had better go to bed. I shall sit
down at once and write for leave of absence."

"That's right," quoth Theodoor Grenits. "In that case we shall have
a few days for quiet reflection. And now, Charles, my boy, I have
no need to ask for leave, I intend to go with you on your journey;
here's my hand upon it!"

The young men hereupon shook hands and each went to his own lodging,
while, in the distance, the sounds of revelry at the Chinaman's house
were still resounding.

Van Nerekool applied for leave of absence; but found that it took some
time to obtain it. Mr. Greveland was just at that time so very busy
that he could not undertake to grant Charles' request, however eagerly
this latter might press for it. The President, however, forwarded van
Nerekool's application to the authorities at Batavia. Thus Charles was
forced for some days to wait with such patience as he could command.

