Meanwhile, however, events were taking place which exercise some
influence on the course of our story and which we will now proceed
to narrate.

Not long after the nuptials between Lim Ho and pretty and wealthy
Ngow Ming Nio had been solemnized, the great day came round on
which the opium monopoly for the years 18--, 18--, and 18-- had to be
assigned. This was a most important event for the whole official world,
and one which, in the well known financial position of matters at home,
was especially significant to those who were in authority at Batavia
and Santjoemeh. For, if the Colonial Secretary could but show a goodly
number of millions as the produce of the sale of opium-contracts, why
then he and his colleagues might feel themselves pretty safe in their
seats. They thought, and not without excellent reason, that if they
could but manage to increase the revenue they would, by that means,
gain infinite credit in the Parliament at home. It need hardly be
said therefore that every nerve was strained to obtain so desirable
a result.

Resident van Gulpendam had, as our readers know, another, that is
a private, reason for making every exertion; and he left no stone
unturned to induce as many as he possibly could to come and bid for
the lucrative contract. His agents were out on all sides trying to get
the rival companies to enter into competition, and in these efforts
his handsome wife was of the greatest assistance to him. The proud
woman had set her heart and soul upon seeing her husband's breast
adorned with the "bertes knabbeldat."

Now that the existing contracts were fast running out, and that by the
last day of December, the opium-monopolies for the different districts
had to be again put up to the highest bidder, the greatest activity
prevailed. The strictest precautions against smuggling were taken
along the entire coast-line--against such smuggling, be it understood,
as was not carried on by the farmers themselves. Bandoelans and
policemen were everywhere on the alert, and were left to do pretty
much as they pleased in their visitations of suspected houses, or
in their search for opium on the persons of the unhappy creatures to
whom they might owe a grudge. Especially did those suffer from their
insolence, who either did not make use of opium at all, or who used
it in strict moderation. The success which these stringent measures
obtained was rapid and complete. The sale of opium by the farmers
rose in an extraordinary manner now that contraband wares could no
longer be obtained, and the retail price of the pernicious drug rose
in proportion.

