"If we could only have that kind of thing always going on!" cried
Lim Ho who, when the conversation turned upon opium, could not always
keep a discreet tongue in his head. But Lim Yang Bing, who was older
and wiser, and who, above all things, feared competition at the coming
sales, merely shrugged his shoulders. He would have been glad enough to
say nothing about this sudden increase in his daily receipts; but, with
so many opium-dens under his control, secrecy was well-nigh impossible.

But Resident van Gulpendam did more than this. He, through his agents,
cleverly spread the report that the Government intended largely to
increase the number of opium-licenses in his Residence. This had its
effect also, and presently a feverish excitement began to show itself
in the rival Chinese camps.

On the important day of the sale, a brand-new flag of extraordinary
dimensions, the finest and brightest that could be found, was
waving in the morning breeze from the flag-staff in front of the
residential mansion. On that day the whole body of oppassers had been
mustered. They numbered over twenty men, all dressed in new uniforms
with bright yellow belts furbished up as smartly as possible. The
native soldiers also on sentry were in full-dress, and they marched up
and down before the steps of the Residence with a solemnity and gravity
of demeanour, which plainly showed that they were impressed with a
full consciousness of the responsibilities which rested upon them.

To add to the brilliancy of the display, Resident van Gulpendam had
summoned to Santjoemeh a couple of assistant residents and a couple of
controllers from the adjoining districts. These gentlemen, together
with all the native chiefs then present in the capital, assembled
towards ten o'clock in the front gallery. All were, of course, in
full official dress with sprigs of orange and oak-leaves embroidered
in silver on their collars. The orange, an emblem of purity; the oak,
the type of manly vigour and independence. They had on white cashmere
trousers with a broad gold stripe, and the regulation dress-sword by
their sides.

