Presently the Chinese contingent also began to arrive, all dressed in
clean white jackets and black trousers monstrously wide in the legs,
their heads carefully shaven and polished, while the long scalp-lock
which forms the tail was treated with the greatest care, plaited
skilfully and with almost mathematical exactness, and interwoven with
red, blue, and white silk cord.

At first only a few idlers appeared strolling in merely out of
curiosity to have a look at the proceedings. These were succeeded by
other more wealthy men, the representatives of the various companies,
who might be expected to enter into the competition. Last of all Lim
Yang Bing and his son Lim Ho drove up and, as they stepped out of their
carriage, they carefully scrutinized their countrymen present. For
some time the Celestials mingled with the official personages, and
formed a group in which salutations and hand-shakings bore witness to
the cordiality existing between them. But when the soldier on guard
struck one blow upon the gong which stood beside his sentry-box,
and thus announced that it was half-past ten, Resident van Gulpendam
accompanied by his private secretary--both in full-dress--entered the
front gallery, while Mrs. van Gulpendam, on the arm of van Rheijn,
appeared at one of the open doors.

The chiefs present all made a low bow, the sentries presented arms,
the oppassers formed a line by the pajoeng stand, in which a gorgeous
emblem of dignity was conspicuous.

The officials present now advanced in a body to pay their homage to
the representative of the Governor-General who, in his turn, represents
the King of the Netherlands in these far-away Asiatic regions.

Next, the Chinamen came forward to perform a similar duty, and after
this the two groups of Europeans and Chinamen remained apart. A few of
the latter, foremost among them Lim Yang Bing and Lim Ho, walked up to
Laurentia, and gave her a courteous greeting. She was all affability
and cordially shook hands with the pair as well as with some others,
who were standing near; and then she invited all the babahs to come
in and have something to drink.

