"It is so frightfully hot just now in Santjoemeh!" she protested.

A faint smile passed over the Chinamen's wan and yellow features; they
bowed their thanks as they cast significant looks at one another. Then
they followed their fair guide through the inner gallery into the
pandoppo. A large table stood there bearing a number of trays full
of champagne glasses, while, under the table, might be seen little
tubs of ice, in which the bottles with their silvered corks were
neatly arranged.

"Open the champagne!" cried Laurentia to three or four attendants
who stood by.

The corks popped, and in a few moments all the babahs, rich and poor,
were standing glass in hand eager to be allowed the honour of touching
glasses with the Njonja-Resident.

As a rule, your Chinaman is a great stickler for etiquette; and, on
any ordinary occasion, they would no doubt have sipped their wine
leisurely, with half-closed eyes as they have seen Europeans do;
but now they behaved in a widely different manner. For fair Laurentia
had informed them that, when they had the honour of drinking with a
njonja, the glass must be emptied at a single draught.

"The gentlemen call that ad fundum," remarked the Chinese major.

"Just so, babah," replied Laurentia as she gave him a sly nudge.

In an instant every cup was drained.

"Fill the glasses!" she cried; and from that moment Mrs. van Gulpendam
kept the waiters busy. On one pretext or another, she took care that
the glasses were kept filled and that their contents were duly and
speedily disposed of.

Meanwhile the Resident himself had been engaged in conversation with
his friends and subordinates in the front gallery.

"What has become of our babahs?" he asked presently. "Come, gentlemen,
I do not think we shall have cause to repent if we go and look them
up. It is frightfully hot here. Don't you think so?"

Thus saying and wiping the perspiration from his brow with his cambric
handkerchief, he led the way into the interior of the house followed
by his embroidered and lace-covered staff.

