After having thus spoken, the Resident led the way into the inner
gallery followed by the entire company. In this room stood a large
table with a white marble top on which were scattered about a number of
official papers and documents. At the head of this table van Gulpendam
took up his position surrounded by his staff; and opposite him stood
the crowd of Chinamen, the table separating the two groups from one
another. On the wall of the room hung a very fine picture, a life-size,
half-length portrait of King William III., and this picture formed
the centre, as it were, of the two groups of Europeans and Asiatics.

"The secretary will now proceed to read out the conditions of the
opium contract which we are about to dispose of," said the Resident
very solemnly.

The official thus alluded to began at once, in the usual monotonous
and almost unintelligible drone, to mumble a series of articles
which he seemed to have by heart. Indeed, the whole thing was
a mere formality. Those who had come prepared to bid for this
Government contract were perfectly familiar with every word that paper
contained. At the preamble, "In the name of the King," every head bowed
deeply. One article, in which mention was made of the fact that the new
opium farmer would have the privilege of opening a number of stores
in addition to those specified in the former contract, the secretary
took care to read out with an amount of distinctness and emphasis
which could not fail to arrest the attention of all interested parties.

When this formality was ended, the Resident said: "The sum bid for
the former contract which is now about to expire was twelve hundred
and thirty-two thousand guilders-- Who will make a higher bid?"

"Twelve hundred and thirty five!" cried a voice.

"Twelve hundred and forty thousand!" said another.

"Twelve hundred and fifty!" was heard in a corner.

"Twelve hundred and sixty!"

There was a pause of a few seconds.

"Twelve hundred and sixty is offered," quietly repeated van Gulpendam.

