A dead silence ensued. After that knock-down blow one might have heard
a pin drop. It was evident that the opposition was crushed. Perhaps
Kwee Siong Liem might have made another attempt; but the members of
his company pulled him forcibly back and prevented him from rashly
uttering another word.

"Two millions are bid," said the Resident. "Allow me once again to
draw the attention of the company to the fact that several additional
licenses will be granted."

But it was of no avail. The servants--poor fellows--kept rushing about
filling up the glasses; but the wine seemed to have lost its power.

"Two millions once!

"Two millions--twice. Will anyone bid higher? Two millions--for the
third time!"

Bang! down came the hammer.

"Subject to the approval of the Dutch Government," said the Resident
impressively, "I declare this opium contract to be assigned to Lim
Yang Bing!"

At these words all the officials crowded round their chief to wish
him joy on his brilliant success; while most of the Chinamen pressed
around Lim Yang Bing to congratulate him and shake hands with him.

Laurentia took care that another round of champagne should set the
seal on the bargain. There was, of course, a great deal of excitement
for some time, and much enthusiasm was displayed; but whether any
one present bestowed even a passing thought upon the poor unhappy
dessa-people, out of whose scanty means and enfeebled frames this
enormous sum was to be wrung--that we cannot undertake to affirm.

Yes, there was one man who did think of them; and that man was
van Rheijn.

He looked sadly up at the portrait of the king as he asked himself
whether it could really be his royal will that such things should go
on among his subjects. Alas, the dumb canvas could not answer, and
the picture of the sovereign gazed down quietly upon the noisy crowd.

Scarcely had the Resident got rid of his visitors before he rushed
into his study, and soon returned with beaming countenance, bearing
in his hand two telegrams, each couched in precisely similar terms.

