"Result of opium-sale at Santjoemeh--two millions. Van Gulpendam."

One dispatch was destined for Batavia, the other was for the Hague.

When the oppasser whom he sent to the telegraph office had disappeared,
van Gulpendam looked around him with the utmost satisfaction and
complacency. As his eye fell upon the Dutch flag, which spread its
gay colours to the breeze, he fancied that those folds pointed to
the North-West--towards home.

"Aye," he muttered to himself, "from that quarter my reward must come."

Turning round as he said these words, he saw Laurentia standing at
his elbow. He gave her one penetrating look:

"You here yet?" asked he.

But without replying, she grasped his arm, drew him with gentle
violence into the inner room, and there, when safe from every prying
look, she clasped him in her strong white arms to her breast.

"Gulpie!" she cried, "Gulpie, my darling! you have surpassed yourself!"

"Yes," said he, with assumed modesty, "yes, I have piloted that
frigate pretty cleverly, though I say so myself. Now, I hope they
will not be ungrateful at the Hague!"








CHAPTER XL.

THE "VIRTUS NOBILITAT." ANNA AND DALIMA. A TELEGRAM.


Oh no, the people at the Hague were not at all ungrateful. Eight
days had not elapsed before the telegraph had flashed across the
ocean the news, that it had been the pleasure of H. M. the king
to confer upon his trusty servant van Gulpendam the order of the
Netherlands' Lion. By the next mail the particulars arrived in Java,
and it then became known that immediately after the receipt of the
telegram announcing the result of the opium-sale at Santjoemeh,
a special council of Ministers was called. At this meeting the
Colonial Secretary, elated to the verge of excitement, had drawn
special attention to the conspicuous merit of Resident van Gulpendam,
and had dwelt upon the great financial advantages which would accrue
to the State if all the other residents were encouraged to emulate his
example. He reminded his colleagues that the revenue derived from the
coffee-culture was fast dwindling away and threatened soon to become
a thing of the past; and that, therefore, opium was in the future to
be looked upon as the chief means for keeping afloat the ship of the
State. That it was for this reason a matter of the utmost importance
to strive and raise the revenues, derived from that source, by all
possible means, as indeed he had always shown himself zealous to do
from the day that the king had entrusted the affairs of the colonies
to his hands. Knowing perfectly well that he had nothing new to say,
yet the minister purposely left something unsaid. He took care not to
tell his colleagues, and the nation, that, with anything like judicious
management, the coffee culture would have continued as profitable as
ever it was; but that, by gross neglect and swindling on the part of
the officials who had the management of it, that source of revenue
had been well-nigh destroyed. He further omitted to let them know,
that the culture of coffee was a means of spreading prosperity and
contentment among the native population; whereas the encouragement
of opium was a public disgrace and a national curse.

