Upon these subjects the Colonial Secretary did not touch; and thus
his colleagues unanimously applauded his speech and supported his
application for the Netherlands' Lion, an application to which,
being a constitutional monarch, King William III. could not refuse
his sanction.

Some few there were, no doubt, who shook their heads dubiously as
the news of this honourable distinction reached Santjoemeh. But yet,
when the newspapers, in their boldest type, conveyed to the people the
happy tidings, almost all Santjoemeh was beside itself for joy. Cards,
letters, telegrams of congratulation came pouring in on all sides,
not only from Java; but also from friends in Holland.

The van Gulpendams received visits innumerable, and even those who did
not join in the universal chorus of rapture, yet found it difficult
to refrain from giving some outward show of satisfaction. Such want
of courtesy might very easily have been ascribed to envy.

But these were not the only demonstrations of the public joy. Fêtes,
dinner parties, balls were given to celebrate the memorable event. The
Regent of Santjoemeh led the way by giving a splendid banquet in honour
of the newly made knight; and his example was speedily followed by
the Government officials, by the members of the Club "Concordia,"
by the Chinese major, &c. &c.

As a grand final to this round of festivities, a state ball was given
at the Residence, at which, it is needless to say, that all Santjoemeh
was expected to be present, as indeed it was.

On these festive occasions, toasts were drunk, speeches were made,
congratulatory odes were recited--and all this to glorify the man whose
breast was now decorated with the "virtus nobilitat." Fair Laurentia,
with that fine tact, which, in woman, is almost an instinct, had
tried to persuade her husband to appear in public with the very
tiniest cross suspended from the narrowest possible bit of blue
and orange ribbon. This would undoubtedly have been in good taste;
but the Resident would have none of it. He sent at once to Batavia
for a cross about as big as an ordinary saucer, and he suspended it
from a ribbon of proportionate width. "When you do hang out a flag,"
said he to his wife, "men must be able to see it a mile off and
you must let it blow out bravely." That was his view of the matter,
and no argument had been of any avail against this nautical aphorism.

