To tell the truth, the man was mighty proud of himself and hugely
enjoyed all the fuss that was made about him. His satisfaction would
indeed have been perfect, had not certain uneasy rumours begun to
spread among the public. It was whispered, that among the native
population, the feeling of contentment of which the Resident was
constantly making mention in his despatches, was not by any means so
perfect as he tried to represent it. Rumours were abroad of secret
gatherings and even of conspiracies far more alarming than the casual
assembling of robber bands. It was a curious thing that a certain
paper in Batavia, alluding to these secret risings in the residence
of Santjoemeh, said that a Holy War was in preparation, and gave
this information on trustworthy authority. This paper, which had thus
ventured to disturb the serenity of the authorities, was treated in the
most summary manner, its plant was confiscated, its offices closed,
its editor banished; all this to prove, of course, that there was no
disturbance whatever, but that the press only was dangerous.

But yet, some very plain hints were conveyed to Resident van Gulpendam
that it would be well for him to do his utmost to prove that the
situation was really as satisfactory as he represented it to be,
and that the unpleasant rumours were nothing more than idle gossip.

Accordingly, van Gulpendam had, during the festive week, made some
excursions into the parts which were said to be disaffected; but he
had found the most profound quiet everywhere. At the suggestion of the
European officials, the native chiefs had not failed to wait on the
kandjeng toean to offer him their very sincere congratulations on the
distinction with which it had been the king's pleasure to honour him.

Nothing could be better. Van Gulpendam was in the highest possible
spirits, he had a kind word for all, he courteously acknowledged every
profession of good will, whether it came from European or native;
and exhorted every one to continue in these pleasant paths of peace.

