But yet, amidst all this chorus of jubilation, one jarring note was
heard. It came from a well-known European settler, who owned a large
sugar-plantation and factory, situated on the extreme limits of the
residence of Santjoemeh. This gentleman was most positive in his
assertion, that clandestine meetings and assemblies were, now and
then, held in a wood close by his property. He had his information
from sources which, he thought, were absolutely trustworthy; and
he further declared that he was acquainted even with the names of
a couple of the ringleaders. He could not help looking upon these
secret meetings as suspicious, even though perhaps they might not be
immediately dangerous.

"And may I beg you to tell me what are those names?" said Mr. van
Gulpendam sarcastically.

"I know only two of them," was the reply; "they must be father and
son, for they are Pak Ardjan and Ardjan; the latter, I am told, is
a bold and determined fellow, and both seem to belong to the dessa
Kaligaweh in the district of Banjoe Pahit."

At the mention of these names, the Resident felt that he turned
pale. He pulled out his handkerchief to wipe the perspiration from
his face and to hide his evident confusion.

"It is oppressively hot!" cried he, in a faint tone of voice.

A glass of iced water was handed to him, and soon he regained his
composure. Determined to remove the impression which his momentary
confusion might have made, he continued:

"Pooh, pooh! Those Kaligaweh fellows have crossed the sea long
ago. Depend upon it they won't show their noses on Dutch territory
again. I know for a fact that they were quite lately seen at
Singapore. There can be no doubt about that."

"Well, Resident," replied the sugar-planter in a serious tone, "I must
tell you that I do not feel at all safe. You know, of course, that
here in India the outlying settlers always are the first victims of
these native plots; and that if such a rising as I apprehend were to
break out, all Europeans would be ruthlessly massacred. My grounds,"
he continued, "lie far away, and, in case of a sudden outbreak, it
would take two days at least for either police or military to reach
me. I shall therefore esteem it a great favour if you will grant me
some kind of protection. Send me a few policemen whom I can trust,
I will see to the arming of the men."

