"Policemen! my dear sir. What are you talking about? What would be the
use of them?" asked the Resident with a compassionate smile; for he had
by this time completely regained his self-possession. "You are creating
fanciful dangers. It is, in fact, absurd to talk in this manner."

"I know what I know," rejoined the sugar-factor, "and I say without
any hesitation, that the reports which have reached me do not appear
to me at all fanciful or incredible."

"All right!" said van Gulpendam carelessly.

"You must excuse me, Resident," insisted the sugar-planter, "but I
think that if you were living with your family in that lonely spot
you would not talk in quite such an easy way."

Although our friend van Gulpendam was not precisely the stuff that
heroes are made of, yet he was not by any means a coward. He felt,
moreover, perfectly well that the moment had arrived to payer de sa
personne. What might be said at Batavia should it be suspected that
he felt the slightest distrust or fear?

"All nonsense!" cried he in the same sarcastic and careless
manner. "Come now, my dear sir, to prove to you how certain I am
that there is nothing wrong, I invite myself and my wife to go and
stay with you for a fortnight on your plantation. I know you keep a
pretty good galley, do you accept my offer?"

"With the greatest pleasure in the world, Resident," eagerly cried
the planter.

He felt sure that the Resident of the district would take care to
come under a sufficient escort of police.

"Very well, then," replied van Gulpendam; "as soon as ever these
festivities are over at Santjoemeh, I will let you know; and then
you may get a couple of rooms ready for us."

"And how many oppassers do you intend to bring?"

"None at all! a couple of my servants, and that is all. I intend to
show you that I have the fullest confidence in the state of affairs,
and that I am under no apprehension whatever. Now that is agreed
upon, eh?"

Just outside, close under the verandah in which this conversation was
taking place, a couple of sentries were walking up and down as a guard
of honour to the kandjeng toean. If any one could but have watched
one of these fellows, he must have noticed that the sentry marched up
and down in such a manner as always to keep as close as possible to
the speakers. He must have observed also, that the man was listening
to every word that was said; and that his eyes wore a most dangerous
and sinister expression. At the last sentence spoken by the Resident a
gleam of satisfaction seemed to overspread the native soldier's face
and, had he received a classical education, no doubt the man would
have muttered to himself: "Deus quem vult perdere prius dementat."

