As soon as van Gulpendam returned to Santjoemeh, he gave it out far
and wide that both his wife and himself were tired out by this round
of festivities, that they needed rest and had made up their minds
to go and enjoy a fortnight's peace and quietness at the factory
"Soeka maniesan."

Two days later they started. Laurentia took only her maid, and
van Gulpendam a couple of body-servants; but, on the box, a single
oppasser was seated beside the coachman. His duty was to hold aloft
the golden pajoeng in token that the Resident toean was seated within.

That same day Charles van Nerekool and Theodoor Grenits also started
for Gombong, intending from thence, in company with Murowski, to
go and surprise Anna van Gulpendam in her lonely retreat. The two
carriages crossed as they left the town of Santjoemeh. The one over
which the pajoeng was displayed travelling in an eastern direction,
while the other took the road to the south.

After nonna Anna and baboe Dalima had been so thoroughly frightened
at their bathing place, they no longer ventured to go alone to the
spot. They thought--indeed by this time they felt sure--that the
stone which so unexpectedly had splashed down by Anna's side, had
been detached from the rock above by the tread of some animal--of some
wild boar perhaps or some stray goat. But for all that the fright had
suggested the possibility of a surprise. Anna, therefore, had persuaded
an old Javanese woman to come and take up her abode with them in the
little hut. She would accompany them to the bathing place and mount
guard while the young girls were disporting themselves in the water,
and would thus be able to give them timely warning of the approach
of any possible intruder.

There was another advantage gained by taking this nènèh into their
service; for they could now leave to her certain necessary and menial
duties which would leave them more time to spend at the loom or to
work in the painting room. The harder they worked the faster the money
came in, for the kahins and the slendangs which they wove, and the
sarongs they painted, were in great request. In fact they generally
had more orders on hand than they could manage to execute. The result
was that the inmates of the hut began to find themselves in somewhat
easy circumstances, and--was it perhaps owing to this fact, or was
it because no one could look upon the two pretty girls without being
attracted by them?--At all events this much is certain that when,
on rare occasions, they appeared in the dessa Ajo, where they had no
fear of being recognised, the young men of the village would cast many
a tender look upon them--sometimes even a kindly word was whispered
as they passed.

