"He ought to have been here before this," remarked the baboe with
something very like scorn in her voice. "A Javanese," she continued,
"would have found you out long ago."

"How about Ardjan then?" asked Anna.

"Ardjan!" cried Dalima sadly, "Ardjan is a convict, he has run
away, Allah only knows where he is and what he is about. Moreover,
I am no longer his betrothed. To him I am nothing more than a poor
fallen girl!"

Both again were silent for some time, each absorbed in her own
thoughts. Anna was sorry that she had touched so sensitive a chord;
but it was Dalima who continued:

"But even if it were so, if the young judge really were on your
track--"

"Oh! don't speak so," cried Anna, "the very thought fills me with
terror. If I could think that possible I would start off at once."

"But what can you have against him?" persisted the baboe.

"No more of this, Dalima!"

"Have you ceased to love him then? Have you cast him out of your
heart?"

"Don't speak so!" cried Anna in the greatest excitement; "not love
him? Oh! if that were true! Cast him out of my heart! Not a day,
not an hour, not a minute passes without my thinking of him!"

"Well then," continued the simple Javanese girl, "why be so cruel?"

"Be silent, Dalima!"

"Can you not feel how wretched you are making him, Nana?"

"Oh! I pray you, pray do not say another word. Never, never can I be
his--no--nor any other man's wife."

Dalima looked up at her with a puzzled expression. It would not be
easy perhaps to say exactly what was passing in her mind. On her face
there was a look of astonishment mingled with vexation; in her eyes
one might read:

"What funny whims those white folk have! How miserable they make
their lives!"

After a little while she was about to renew the conversation, she was
in the act of opening her mouth to do so, when, just at that moment,
the nènèh entered the gallery where the two girls were sitting. She
had been down to the dessa to make some purchases, and now came in
to give an account of what she had bought and of the money she had
spent. Her entry created a diversion; but, when the old woman began to
open her budget of news, she caused the greatest consternation. She
told the girls that three Europeans had arrived at the dessa and had
taken up their quarters in the loerah's house.

