"Three Europeans?" cried Anna, pale with terror.

"Yes, Nana," replied the nènèh, who, thinking that she was speaking
to a countrywoman of her own, always followed Dalima's example and
addressed the Resident's daughter as "Nana."

"Did you see them, nèh?" asked Dalima.

"No," said the old woman.

"Could you find out what business they have in the village?"

"Some say one thing, some another," was the reply. "I have heard
it said that they are railway people who are out on a shooting
expedition. I think it very likely, for they have guns with
them. Another man told me they are after snakes. Well they can catch
enough of them here. As I was coming along just now I saw a deadly
snake. Luckily I caught sight of the beast or else I might have
trodden on it, and then it would have been all up with me. A third
report is that the gentlemen have come to visit the birds-nest caves."

"Did you hear anything else?"

"No, Nana; but why do you look so strange? There is nothing whatever
to be frightened at--those white men never hurt anybody. Look--there
they are--coming up the path!"

Anna gave one look in the direction to which the nènèh pointed. She
uttered a shriek and catching up a slendang which she flung over
her head she rushed from the house. Dalima, who also had recognised
van Nerekool among the party, followed her mistress and both flew as
fast as their feet would carry them up the pathway which ran in the
opposite direction to the south of the Poleng range. The three men
could see two female forms leaving the hut and rushing up the slope
over against them.

"There she goes!" exclaimed Murowski.

"Anna! Anna!" cried van Nerekool in heartrending accents; but it was
in vain. That moment the two girls disappeared in a sudden bend of
the mountain path.

And now, before coming to the closing scene of our story, we must
here cast another look backward.

Van Nerekool and Grenits had started, as we heard just now, in a
carriage from Santjoemeh on their way to Wonosobo. From thence they
had pursued their journey on horseback.

