"Tell van Nerekool," he read, "that Resident van Gulpendam and his
wife have been murdered by a band of ketjoes. Further particulars
by letter!"

For some seconds all present sat dumb with amazement and horror. Then
van Nerekool sprang to his feet, he snatched the telegram from
Murowski's hand, and held it up to the light of the lamp. He rubbed
his eyes as if he could not trust his senses:

"Aye!" he exclaimed at length--"true, too true!"

"Is Mr. van Nerekool related to those poor people?" asked the captain's
wife, who was struck by the ghastly pallor of the young judge's face.

"Pardon me, madam," said Grenits, "we happened to leave Santjoemeh
at the same time as the family van Gulpendam. The mere thought of so
terrible a murder perpetrated on friends, whom we but lately left in
the full glow of health and spirits, fills us with horror."

The lady nodded assent. "It is indeed terrible!" she murmured.

"My friends," said van Nerekool, turning to Murowski and Grenits,
"I fear our expedition will have to be deferred for a few hours. Under
these terrible circumstances I feel it my duty to go at once and see
Mrs. Steenvlak. How far is it from here to Karang Anjer, captain?"

"About six pals, Mr. van Nerekool," replied the soldier.

"Is it as much as that? Could you manage to get me a horse?"

"My own horse is at your disposal," said the captain. "What do you
intend to do?"

"I must at once ride off to Karang Anjer. It is now about seven
o'clock. Before eight I can be there. To-morrow morning before
daybreak I shall be off again, and at six I hope to be back here to
resume our journey to Karang Bollong. You need not fear, captain,
I shall see that your horse is well cared for."

"I am not at all afraid of that," replied the captain. "He will find
an excellent stable at the Steenvlaks." Then he rose and went to give
the necessary orders to get the horse saddled.

"Miss van Gulpendam was staying: with the Steenvlaks--" said the
lady of the house, her curiosity thoroughly aroused at this sudden
resolution on the part of van Nerekool.

