"Indeed!" said the Resident; "and what may be the cause of this sad
state of things, Radhen Adipattie?"

The Javanese chief shook his head dubiously, he did not at all like
answering that question.

As he stood there hesitating, van Gulpendam asked:

"Do the landowners pay the labourers reasonably well?"

"Oh, yes, kandjeng toean."

"Perhaps the rice harvest has failed or has not, this season, produced
as much as usual?"

"No, no, kandjeng toean, the harvest has been especially good and
abundant this year. The men have brought home many bundles of rice
to the common barn."

"What then may be the cause of the distress you speak of, Radhen
Adipattie?" asked the Resident.

"I do not know," replied the Javanese chief with a sigh.

The truth was, that he knew it well enough; but that he did not dare
to speak out. He knew equally well that if he told the whole truth he
would incur the displeasure of the Resident. He knew that the barns
were empty. The harvest had been plentiful indeed; but very little
of the crop had found its way to the barns.

The fact is, that the Javanese is a mere grown-up child. He had simply
squandered away his produce while it was yet standing unripe in the
fields. To lay his hands upon a little ready cash, he had sold his
rice, long before it was cut, to the Chinese money-lenders. And the
money thus obtained, at a ruinous sacrifice of course, had speedily
found its way to the opium-den, to the gambling-booth and to the
pawn-shop. It had been swallowed up by that august Trinity which is
the chief source of Dutch revenue. No, no! the Regent was too prudent
a man to put his thoughts into words, he cast a look of awe upon the
big cross which glittered on the Resident's breast and, with another
sigh, he said again:

"I cannot tell, kandjeng toean."

The Resident was perfectly satisfied with the result of his
investigation, and declared that he would occupy no other rooms than
those in the outbuildings. He professed himself quite contented with
the ordinary visitors' quarters.

