"But, Resident," persisted the proprietor, "your apartments in the
house are all ready for you."

"My worthy friend," said van Gulpendam, "I won't hear of any such
thing. I intend to prove to you that I am perfectly satisfied as to
the state of the country, and, in the out-buildings I shall sleep as
securely and as soundly as you in your house."

From this resolution no arguments could move him. And, indeed, it
seemed that he was perfectly right. The reports which came in from
all quarters were so reassuring, that the owner of the factory Soeka
maniesan himself was beginning to incline to the opinion that he must
have been deceived.

The first night which the Resident and his wife passed in their
apartments, was as quiet as any night could possibly be, and they
enjoyed the most delightful rest.

The next day was spent in a minute survey of the sugar-factory although
it was rather late in the season, and the yearly campaign was about
to close. In the afternoon they took a pleasant walk, in the course
of which both Mr. and Mrs. van Gulpendam were delighted at the very
great respect which was paid them by every class of natives they
happened to meet. Not that such homage was strange to them, quite
the contrary; for, while he was only a controller, van Gulpendam had
exacted that every native whom he encountered on the way should squat
down and make a respectful sembah, and that every woman should turn
away her face, which is the usual way of showing deference. But here,
all these things were done by the natives with such evident signs of
deep humility--the country people were evidently so overawed at the
sight of their august visitors--that both the Resident and Laurentia
were delighted at so much submission. No, no, in these parts there
could be not the smallest ground for apprehension; van Gulpendam
thought he knew quite enough of the native character to make sure of
that. The evening also was passed most pleasantly. The owner of Soeka
maniesan had invited the principal families of the neighbourhood to
meet the Resident; and these had, of course, eagerly, accepted the
invitation. The gentlemen, and some of the ladies too, sat down to
a quiet game at cards, and those who did not play, passed the time
pleasantly enough with music and social conversation.

