If some remnants of uneasiness could yet have lingered in the
Resident's mind, the placid landscape which lay stretched out before
him must have dissipated all such vague apprehensions. The moon stood
high in the heavens and shed her calm quiet light over the scene. A
cool breeze was rustling in the leaves of the splendid trees by which
the entire building was surrounded. In fact, everything breathed the
most profound peace, that serene quiet which makes tropical nights
above all things delicious. Thus the evening passed in quiet enjoyment,
and the hour of midnight had struck before the carriages came rumbling
up to take the visitors home.

When the guests had taken their departure, and the inmates of the
house were preparing to retire to rest, one of the overseers came
in and reported that some fellow had been seen sneaking about behind
the garden hedge.

"Some thief, probably," said the man carelessly, as if such a thing
was a not at all unusual occurrence.

"Come," said the proprietor, "let us go and have a look round." As
he said these words, he took down his gun, and offered the Resident
a weapon of the same description. Van Gulpendam however, with a wave
of his hand, declined to take it.

The two gentlemen, accompanied by the overseer, walked out into the
grounds; while the ladies retired to their bedrooms.

As we have already said, the weather was beautifully warm and clear.

The two European gentlemen strolled about but could discover nothing
to breed suspicion. The cool night-air induced them somewhat to extend
their walk. They got outside the grounds and entered the fields of
sugar-cane which adjoined the property, in which the canes had already
been partially gathered. The cane which had been cut had been carried
away to the factory; but a considerable part of the field was still
occupied by the tall stems awaiting the hand of the reaper. Here and
there in the field were big heaps of dry leaves which had been stripped
from the cane and were destined presently to be carried to the factory
to serve as fuel. The proprietor of Soeka maniesan was a thoroughly
practical sugar manufacturer, a man who knew all the ins and outs
of his trade; and Mr. van Gulpendam, who, while he occupied inferior
positions in the interior of the island, had been brought much into
contact with that industry, prided himself upon being pretty well up
in the subject also. Thus between these two experts, the conversation
never once flagged. Followed at a respectful distance by the overseer,
the gentlemen strolled leisurely along discussing the various kinds
of cane which were grown on the plantation. Van Gulpendam would
have it, that the light yellow cane contained the greatest amount
of saccharine matter, while the other declared, quite as positively,
that his long experience had taught him that the dark brown cane was
the more profitable to grow.

