Both gentlemen stuck to their opinion, and the discussion was growing
somewhat lively; when--suddenly--a yell was heard, and a number
of men with blackened faces and armed with clubs, sprang up from
behind one of the heaps of leaves and made a rush straight at the two
Europeans. Startled at this sudden apparition, the Resident and his
host took to flight; but they had time to run only a very few paces,
before the nimble-footed Javanese had caught up the proprietor of
the factory and felled him to the ground with a single blow, before
he could so much as get his gun up to his shoulder. The Resident
they did not overtake until he had got within the grounds; but,
instead of striking at him, the men seized him, flung him down to
the ground and securely bound him. What had meanwhile become of the
overseer was a mystery. Very likely he had thrown himself down and
was crouching behind a heap of leaves; or, perhaps, he was hiding
behind some bushes. As van Gulpendam was being bound, he could see a
dozen of the men rushing off in the direction of the wing in which
was situated his wife's bedroom. He would have cried out for help;
but a powerful hand drove into his mouth a gag made of an old rag and
prevented him from uttering a sound. He could see that the attacking
party first attempted to open the door; but, finding it locked and fast
bolted, dashed it from its hinges with their clubs. Then the whole
party rushed in and cries of terror arose from the interior--then,
suddenly, came one terrible shriek of agony--and all was still again--.

This had taken place so rapidly, that the din made by the battering
in of the door only startled some inmates of the house and the men
who, during the night, had to attend to the steam-engines in the
factory. Long before anyone could come to the rescue, the attacking
party had returned to their comrades, who mounted guard over van
Gulpendam. Then, one of them without attempting to disguise his
voice, said:

"Come, make haste, let us get along, the horses are waiting for us
in the cane-field."

