"Is the lady dead?" asked one of the men as coolly as possible.

"Dead!" was the reply, in a voice which trembled with revengeful
passion.

"Come, pick up that white pig, or else all the factory men will be
upon us and I shall have to kris the dog; that would be a pity."

At the words, a couple of bamboo poles were thrust under the arms
and legs of poor van Gulpendam.

"I am the kandjeng toean Resident!" he tried to say. Whether the words
were understood or not is doubtful; but the only result of the effort
was a furious blow in the mouth which drove the foul gag further home.

"March!" said the leader. Four Javanese thereupon took up the bamboo
poles on their shoulders and trotted off with their burden. The
sufferer groaned with the intense pain caused by the jolting; but
his lamentations were not heard, or if they were, no one paid the
slightest heed to his distress. Close outside the factory grounds
stood half-a-dozen horses saddled and all ready to start. Upon one
of these van Gulpendam was tightly strapped, then some of the men
mounted the other animals and the troop was ready to move on.

"To the 'djaga monjet!'" cried one of the horsemen to those whom he
left behind.

"Yes, yes!" eagerly cried the others.

As soon as the mounted men had disappeared with their prisoner, the
party which was left behind set fire to the sugar-canes. The reedy
stems burned fiercely and soon the dreadful roar of the flames was
mingled with the sharp crackling of the canes. Under cover of these
flames and of the smoke, the party were enabled to make good their
escape; and it was not until then that the big gong of the factory
began to sound the alarm.

While this seizure was taking place at Soeka maniesan, another
surprise of the same kind was being carried out with equal success
in another quarter.

About six pals from the town of Santjoemeh there stood a quaint looking
building, hidden away very pleasantly amid charming scenery in the
bends of the rising ground. Had the house been built in anything like
Swiss or Italian style, it might have been called a chalet or a villa;
but the order of its architecture was so distinctly Mongolian that
no mistake could be made as to its origin. It was, in fact, a Chinese
pavilion which lately had become the property of Lim Ho the son of the
opium factor at Santjoemeh. If anyone had fondly hoped that, after
his marriage, our babah would have settled down and become somewhat
less irregular in his habits, a single peep into the interior of that
pavilion must have dispersed all such pleasant illusions. That small
building, situated there in so charming and lonely a spot was, in fact,
nothing else than a trap into which the licentious young Chinaman was
wont to decoy the victims of his lust and was enabled to ensure their
ruin. The apartments of the pavilion were all furnished regardless
of cost and in the most sumptuous Asiatic style. In every room there
were luxurious divans and on every wall hung pictures which might be
valuable, perhaps, as works of art, but the subjects of which were
sensual and immoral to the lowest degree. On that same night in which
the attack was made upon Soeka maniesan, that Chinese pavilion also was
surprised. Here the attempt succeeded even more easily than that on the
sugar plantation. Lim Ho had that evening left his house in Santjoemeh
and was sitting in his pavilion impatiently awaiting for some poor
creature who had aroused his passions, and whom his agents had promised
to bring him. He had with him only two Chinese servants, fellows who
neither would nor could offer the faintest resistance. About midnight,
a knock was heard at the door. It was a low faint knock, and the babah,
in a fever of expectation, and thinking it was the pigeon which had
been decoyed to his den, gave the word at once to open the door.

