No sooner, however, had the bolts been drawn and the key turned in the
lock, than half-a-dozen men with blackened faces and armed to the teeth
sprang in. Lim Ho, true to the cowardly nature of his race, turned pale
as death but never for an instant thought of resistance. He glanced
round nervously to see whether any way of escape lay open to him; but
when he saw both doors occupied and guarded by the attacking party,
he tried, in his unmanly terror, to hide himself by creeping under
one of the divans. In a very few minutes, however, he was dragged out
of that hiding place and was securely bound, strapped to a horse and
carried off.

Here again, just as at Soeka maniesan, the attacking party left
everything untouched. They did not lay a finger on any of the articles
of value which lay scattered about; but they confined themselves
strictly to the murder of Mrs. van Gulpendam and to the capture of
the Resident and of the opium farmer's son.

The proprietor of the sugar factory had, it is true, been knocked down
by a blow of one of their clubs; but that blow had not been struck
wantonly. It was inflicted simply as a precaution and in self-defence;
for the man would undoubtedly have run off and spread the alarm. He
would have roused his factory hands and caused the whole plot to fail,
and he would immediately have started in pursuit of the raiders. That
had to be guarded against at all hazards. But the blow did not prove
deadly or even dangerous. As soon as the first excitement, consequent
upon the discovery of Laurentia's murder, had somewhat subsided,
a band of men had sallied forth to put out the fire in the fields,
and then the owner of the factory was discovered lying insensible just
outside his own grounds. At first they thought he was dead; for he was
quite unconscious. They carried him into the house, and then his wife
soon found out that her husband, though stunned by a severe blow,
was neither wounded nor materially injured. Every effort was made
to restore him, and after some time, he recovered his senses. The
day had dawned before the police had arrived at Soeka maniesan and
began to make their inquiries. There and then a careful examination
was held of the entire staff employed on the factory--every single
individual being submitted to a rigorous interrogatory; but no clue
was found which could lead to the detection of the perpetrators of
this daring outrage. Just outside the yet smouldering cane-fields,
were found the tracks of horses; but that led to no result for the
weather had for a long time been very dry and the morning breeze had
covered all further tracks with a thick layer of fine dust. Thus
there was nothing, absolutely nothing, to indicate the direction
the horsemen might have taken. The proprietor himself, poor fellow,
could not give the slightest information. All he knew was that, as
he was quietly walking about engaged in argument with the Resident,
a number of fellows with blackened faces had started up from behind
one of the tall piles of leaves, that he had attempted to run away,
but had been overtaken and had received a blow on the head which
stunned him. Of what had taken place after that he, of course, knew
nothing whatever. The overseer's story was, if possible, still more
unsatisfactory. He said that the instant he saw the threatening forms
appearing from behind the heap of dadoe, he had flung himself down
flat upon the ground and then crept under another heap of leaves;
and that he had not ventured to stir out of that hiding place until
he heard the crackling of the canes and began to fear that the
leaves which covered him might be attacked by the flames. While in
this state of terror and suspense, he had seen nothing and had heard
nothing. Now, the question was: where were they to look for Resident
van Gulpendam? The police were at their wits' end. The whole district
of Santjoemeh was, naturally enough, in the greatest excitement;
and universal horror prevailed at the terrible fate which, in all
probability, had overtaken the chief of the district. But do what
they could, and search where they would, not a trace of the criminals
could be discovered, not a single gleam of light could be cast upon the
impenetrable mystery. For a day or two this state of suspense endured
until a fisherman, as he was trying to get his boat into the Moeara
Tjatjing, caught sight of the naked body of a European floating just
outside the surf. He made for it and drew it into his boat and then
took it to the loerah of Kaligaweh which was the nearest dessa.

