Had this simple Javanese fisherman only known that it was the body of
the kandjeng toean, he would no doubt have turned away his head and
quietly said to his mates: "Let Allah's justice float by undisturbed."

Had he been able to foresee what troubles he was bringing upon
himself by raising that corpse from its watery grave, he would have
taken good care not to touch it. The alligators would, no doubt,
soon enough have provided for its burial.

As it was, the loerah of the dessa began by locking up the poor
fellow. Then he had to submit to endless examinations by the wedono,
by the pattih, by the regent, by the controller, by the assistant
resident, by the public prosecutor. All these authorities were
most eager in the matter; and thought that, in this poor man, they
held in their hands a clue to the mysterious drama enacted at Soeka
maniesan. Thus they vied with one another in badgering the poor devil,
until they drove him to desperation, and he at length was forced to
declare that he was light-headed and of weak intellect.

The body was readily identified as that of Resident van
Gulpendam. There could be no doubt about that; for the features
were almost intact. But all the parts which the sea-monsters had
spared appeared extremely inflamed and swollen; and it was evident
that the unhappy man must have died under an extremity of torture,
though there was nothing to show that any knife or sharp instrument
had caused his death.

What then had been his fate?

"To the 'djaga monjet!'"

Yes! It was indeed to that very same dismal hut in the mangrove swamp
by the Moeara Tjatjing, to which we introduced our readers in our
first chapters, that the band of horsemen was now riding at full speed.

They carefully avoided all the dessas which lay on the road, a thing
which they could easily do as they were perfectly acquainted with all
the bye-paths. They shunned even the guard-houses, not being certain
that the watchmen stationed there could be implicitly trusted. Thus,
without let or hindrance, the little troop rode on, and the day was
just beginning to break when they reached the mangrove wood, in which
the "djaga monjet" was situated.

