When they carried van Gulpendam, still bound hand and foot, into
the hut, they found Lim Ho there. He had been brought in some time
before, and was lying stretched out at full length upon the wretched
flooring. He also was bound so tightly that he could not move hand
or foot. At a signal from a tall, slim Javanese, who appeared to be
the leader of the band, the cords which bound the unhappy prisoners
were loosened, and the gags were removed from their mouths.

Around them stood about twenty Javanese, all unrecognisable, with
blackened faces and fully armed.

The Chinaman uttered not a word, he seemed prostrate with terror. The
sudden shock appeared to have annihilated him.

But, as soon as the European felt that he was free, he stretched his
limbs, and in a voice of conscious dignity he said:

"Are you aware that I am the kandjeng toean Resident?"

"Yes, kandjeng toean," replied the leader in a tone of mock humility.

"It is but a few days ago," continued van Gulpendam, "that the kandjeng
toean Radja honoured me with a particular mark of his high favour." As
he spoke these words he pointed haughtily to the huge cross which still
was hanging sparkling on the breast of his light-blue resident's frock.

"Yes, kandjeng toean!" repeated the leader, while all his men made
the sembah in token of deep respect.

"Government will exact the most terrible punishment should you hurt
so much as a hair of my head!"

A mocking laugh was the answer to that speech. Twenty men grasped
the handles of their krises; but at a wave from the leader's hand,
all kept silence, and not a single word was spoken, not a single
blade was drawn.

"Before Government will be able to punish," rejoined the Javanese
quietly, "you will both be dead men."

"Dead!" exclaimed Lim Ho in a voice husky with terror.

"Dead?" cried van Gulpendam. "No, no, you dare not do that! My death
would be too fearfully avenged!"

"Both of you, I said--" resumed the leader with perfect coolness,
"I said both of you deserve to die. We have passed sentence upon
you. That sentence must be carried out--after that, they may do with
us what they will--I mean, of course, if they can lay hands upon us."

