"But," cried Lim Ho, half mad with terror, "what have I done?"

"You ask me what you have done? Well, I will tell you. In this very
hut, you inflicted upon a man, whose only fault was that he loved,
and intended to marry, a girl upon whom you had cast your lustful
eyes, the most atrocious torture. You ask what you have done? That
same young girl you contrived, with the assistance of the njonja of
yonder wretch, to get into your possession, you outraged her most
brutally, and then, when you had worked your foul will upon her,
you cast her off and accused her of opium smuggling."

Lim Ho's face grew ashy-pale as he heard these terrible words, he
began to understand into whose hands he had fallen.

Van Gulpendam thought that he ought still to keep up his proud and
dignified bearing. He could not bring himself to believe that a mere
Javanese would dare to raise his hand against his august person,
against the kandjeng toean. But yet he thought it advisable to speak
in a somewhat conciliatory tone.

"If what you have just now said be true," he began, "then certainly Lim
Ho deserves severe punishment, and I pledge you my word that I will
exert my authority to see that his punishment shall be proportioned
to his offence; but what have I done that you dare to treat me thus?"

"You, you, kandjeng toean!" vehemently broke in the leader, in a voice
which seemed fairly to hiss with rage, "you have made the offences,
as you call them, of this Chinese dog possible. You have had the
man, of whom I just now spoke, cast into a dungeon, you condemned
him to the most barbarous punishment, knowing all the while that he
was innocent. And all this you have done merely in order that you
might screen the smuggling trade of that scoundrel. You supplied
the opium-farmer with the means of preventing that girl's father
from defending his own child against the brutality of yon beastly
Chinaman. Do you still ask me what you have done? Why, you and your
wife are guilty of all I have said--and you and your wife deserve to
die. Part of our sentence has already been carried out, and, believe
me, it will be fully executed."

