"Wha--! What? Partly carried out you said?" gasped van Gulpendam. "My
wife--!"

The leader turned to one of his followers:

"Tell the kandjeng toean what has become of the njonja."

"The njonja is dead!" was the brief reply.

"Yes!" shouted the leader wildly, "the njonja is dead! We had mercy
upon her, one single stab put an end to her accursed life. Look
here--those spots on my kris--they are her blood!"

"That shriek I heard?" cried van Gulpendam.

"Was the last sound she will ever utter in this world. But," continued
the Javanese, still carried away by his passion, "do not for a moment
flatter yourself that we will deal thus mercifully with you. Upon a
woman we could have compassion. But you! Oh yes, you shall suffer! You
shall feel something of the tortures you are so ready to inflict
upon others!"

Even then van Gulpendam retained something of his fortitude and
haughty bearing, and he said:

"I bid you beware of the punishing hand of the Dutch Government,
it will know how to avenge me."

"I am prepared to brave any peril, if only I have my revenge," said
the Javanese. "Upon you I am determined to execute justice!"

"Justice, justice!" cried van Gulpendam, "and who are you that you
dare to prate about justice, even while you are planning sedition
and preparing for murder? Tell me who are you?"

"Who I am? Well, you shall know!"

In a corner of that wretched cabin stood a tub filled with water. The
Javanese took up the cocoa-nut scoop which hung by it and washed
his face.

"Now do you recognise me?" he cried, as he drew himself up to his
full height before his prisoners.

"Ardjan!" sighed Lim Ho.

"Ardjan!" cried van Gulpendam as thoroughly dismayed as was his
companion in misfortune.

Both of them now plainly saw that they were reserved for some dreadful
death. The account which each had to settle with that young man was
a heavy one indeed.

"Have mercy! Have mercy upon us!" they cried as they fell down on
their knees before him, their teeth chattering with terror as they
knelt at his feet.

