"The kandjeng toean to that tree," said Ardjan, pointing to the stem
at which he had himself suffered.

"Pardon! Pity!" the poor victims kept crying incessantly.

No one heeded their agonising yells. When they were tied up--Ardjan
gave the word: "Now, my lads, give way!"

Four men stepped forward each armed with a bunch of the formidable
nettle, and the blows began to fall like rain upon the bare limbs of
the wretched victims.

Wherever the leaves fell the flesh seemed to shrink away in agony.

The Chinaman bit his under-lip until the teeth met in the flesh,
but he did not utter a single moan. At first van Gulpendam strove
to follow his example; but he had not the tough resolution of an
Asiatic in this supreme moment. He could not restrain himself. First
he moaned, then he whimpered, he cried aloud in his misery, he
howled, he yelled with pain. Nothing could touch his ruthless
executioners. "Pardon! mercy!" he cried. "Oh, I beg for mercy!"

But, in reply to his piteous cries, came the words:

"Dalima! Ardjan! Pak Ardjan! Setrosmito!" And then upon the brain of
the unhappy Resident there flashed another name, a name more terrible
to him perhaps than all the others:

"Meidema, Meidema! pardon, mercy!" he kept on wailing in a voice
which told of the most exquisite torture.

But gradually his cries grew weaker, at length they became hardly
intelligible--they gurgled like a hoarse and dying rattle in the
throat. The pain was beyond endurance. Still the men kept plying
their deadly nettle.

At length his head began to dangle helplessly, and it seemed as if
the unfortunate sufferer had lost consciousness.

Lim Ho had been fortunate enough to reach that state much earlier,
and was thus sooner out of his misery.

Ardjan stood by at the scene, glaring at his victims with revengeful
eagerness. He clenched his fists convulsively, he had to exercise
the greatest self-control to prevent himself from catching up one of
the bunches of kamadoog leaves and having his blow at the wretched
beings who had not scrupled to inflict the same barbarous treatment
upon himself. No, no, he felt not the smallest grain of pity--he
could think only of his own wrongs and his own happiness destroyed
for ever. Even if the voice of pity could have spoken within him it
would have been stifled by his father, who, standing close behind him,
kept on whispering in his ear: "Dalima, Dalima!"

