For some time the two victims had been unconscious; but yet Ardjan
did not think of putting a stop to the torture. At every blow, at
every touch even of those terrible leaves the skin of the sufferers
puckered up though the bodies no longer felt the pain. The muscles
stretched, then ran up into knots and horrid spasms shot through the
entire frames. Soon the bodies could no longer support themselves,
but hung in the cords that bound them, limp as empty sacks. The eyes
of the tortured men were closed; but every now and then they would
spasmodically open for a moment, and would stare with a blood-shot
stony gaze which betrayed the extreme suffering which even the
senseless body was undergoing.

In their dying agonies they flung their heads convulsively to and fro,
dashing them up fearfully against the Niboeng palm while flecks of
foam came flying from their lips. But, in this world everything must
come to an end, and at length the protracted sufferings were over.

Gradually the convulsive starts of the two bodies began to subside and
finally ceased altogether. The soul had left its earthly tenement. Then
Ardjan, in tones the most indifferent in the world, said, "Enough!"

At the word, his men looked at him for further instructions. "Untie
them," he said, and without speaking another word, he pointed to
the sea.

The instant the ropes were cut through, the bodies fell with a heavy
thud to the ground. As he fell van Gulpendam for the last time opened
his eyes and, very softly, but quite intelligibly he sighed forth
the single word:

"Meidema!"

The thought of that unhappy family--of those good honest people whose
ruin he had so craftily and cruelly planned, haunted that guilty
soul even as it was taking its flight. With that name on his lips
he expired.

Lim Ho gave no sign of life.

Both corpses were then dragged to the Kali Tjatjing and pitched into
the water, and the stream quickly carried them out to the Java sea.

In the far distance between the two headlands could be seen the
schooner brig Kiem Ping Hin quietly riding at anchor and flying
the British ensign. Faithful to her calling she was waiting for an
opportunity to deliver her smuggled goods to the company Lim Yang Bing.

