






CHAPTER XLII.

IN THE GOEWAH TEMON. CONCLUSION.


"Anna, Anna!" cried van Nerekool, and in that cry he cast his whole
soul; but it was uttered in vain; for just then a sharp bend in the
path caused the two girls to disappear behind a great mass of rock.

When Charles, Murowski and Grenits reached the spot where they had
caught this last glimpse of the fugitives, not a trace could be
discovered of either of them.

"Anna, Anna!" shouted Charles again and again at the top of his voice;
but a beautifully distinct echo, reverberating from the opposite hills,
seemed only to mock his cries.

Our three friends, however, were now compelled to pause. They felt
that they could go on no longer, and must stop awhile to regain
breath. The exertion, indeed, had been very great; for that little path
kept winding upward, ever upward, and the headlong speed with which
they had rushed on made a short rest absolutely necessary. Charles,
however, every now and then, repeated his cry of "Anna, Anna!" He
thought that his voice might perhaps reach the girl and induce her
to stop or to turn. But, no other response came to his anxious call,
than that of the sportive echo which, sharply and clearly, flung back
the two syllables, "Anna, Anna!"

When they had rested awhile, and to some extent regained their
strength and their wind, the three set off again in pursuit. They
had to follow a road which led them along the most eccentric windings
up hill and down dale. At one time the path would run sharply round
some huge rock, at another it would follow the course of some erratic
mountain-stream. Elsewhere again, it ran zigzagging down an almost
perpendicular slope; but yet, on the whole, the ground was steadily
rising and was evidently leading up to the lofty table-land which
is bounded by the cliffs of the Goenoeng Poleng. Very frequently the
road would run, for a while, abruptly downhill as it took them into
the bottom of some wild ravine; but this, far from giving them rest,
only increased the discomfort of travelling. For the sudden change of
motion threatened to dislocate their already tired knees and then,
every descent was immediately succeeded by a sharp and trying climb
which put to tremendous proof the soundness and power of their lungs.

