But in spite of fatigue, the three men kept hurrying on. Van Nerekool's
impatience would brook no delay. They panted, they caught their breath,
they puffed and blew like grampuses; but still they kept on. As they
turned every sharp bend in the road, they felt sure that they must
catch sight of the fugitives; for certainly they could not have got
very far ahead of them. Escape was utterly impossible; for there
existed but the one path up the mountain, and that went twisting
and turning through a country so wild and so rugged that no human
being could leave the footpath either to the right or left. So they
anxiously peered round all about them whenever they gained some spot
which gave a command of the country; but look as they would, not a
glimpse could they catch of either Anna or Dalima.

At length the three men gained the top of the plateau, and they felt
that, for a few moments, they must again sit down and rest. But yet,
they could find no trace of the young girls they were so eagerly
following. The road now no longer rose, it merely twisted in and out
between huge boulders of rock, between hill tops, and around thick
clumps of dwarf shrubs, and thus it offered no extensive view.

"They cannot possibly be far ahead of us!" panted van Nerekool. "Let
us get on, let us get on! We must be close upon them!"

But in this the young man was mistaken--as a matter of fact the girls
had really gained very considerably on their pursuers.

In the first place, they had a considerable start when the chase
began. They had been able to run nimbly along a path which was
quite familiar to them, which they had indeed been accustomed to
climb almost daily. Their knowledge of the country enabled them to
make many a short cut with which the Europeans were unacquainted;
and thus they had managed to avoid many a long bend and twist in the
road. And lastly, extreme terror seemed to have lent Anna wings, and
poor Dalima had been compelled, as best she might, to toil after her
young mistress. When they reached the plateau, Anna kept on leading
the way and hurrying in a southerly direction. She knew that the
sea could not be far away; for the thunder of the breakers, which,
for some time, had been audible in the distance as a hoarse murmur,
now grew more distinct every moment; and as they sped on they could
feel the very soil quivering under the terrific pounding of the mighty
ocean on the perpendicular wall of rock.

