Before her, in all its grandeur, lay stretched out the Indian Ocean;
and from the height of about twelve hundred feet she could obtain a
magnificent view of it.

She cast one anxious look behind her. The position she now occupied
commanded an extensive view of the path along which she had toiled up;
but not a soul could she see stirring on it. Might the pursuit have
been given up? It seemed improbable, yet it was possible. Might they
have missed the road and gone off on some wrong track? Anna fancied,
that every now and then, she had heard her name called out behind
her; but that again might very well be the result of her over-wrought
imagination. Again and again she eagerly scanned the horizon in all
directions. But no, nothing, nothing was to be seen.

Somewhat quieted she then turned her attention to poor Dalima, who,
panting and moaning, had, by this time, come up to her, and then,
almost senseless, had sunk to the ground.

Anna sat down by her companion. She tried to cheer her up; she rubbed
and kneaded, in native fashion, the muscles of her neck and shoulders,
she patted her hands; in fact, she neglected nothing that the most
anxious solicitude could suggest until she saw that Dalima had somewhat
recovered from her prostration.

As soon as she had succeeded in relieving her companion, Anna again
gave an anxious nervous look behind her, but still she could perceive
nothing. Then she walked forward resolutely to the edge of the slope
which ran before her down to the sea.

"Yes," said she, half aloud, "the ladder is still hanging there. I
have heard a good many tales about the Goewah Temon. If it must be
so--I shall fly there for refuge!"

Then, once again, looking to the north, she continued: "But I hope I
may not have to undertake that fearful journey--I can see nothing,"
she said with a sigh, "if Charles were really on my track, he must
have appeared long before this on the table-land!"

Therewith she turned her face full to the ocean. Though she was
disguised in Javanese dress, yet she was, and always would remain,
a child of the West; that is to say, her eyes were open to the glories
which Nature was there offering to her gaze.

