Before her lay the Indian Ocean. On the far horizon it seemed to melt
away into the sky; but yet in that distance a line clearly defined
the apparent contact of sea and heaven. Closer inland the water
wore a dark blue tint, forming a beautiful contrast with the light
azure-blue of the heavens. This contrast was rendered more striking
still by the tremendous rollers which came up from the South. Those
mighty billows looked like long lines of liquid hills, which seemed
to detach themselves from the horizon and come rolling in majestically
upon the shore of Java.

These immense waves were smooth as polished glass; for not the faintest
breath of wind so much as ruffled their surface, and thus rising and
falling calmly and mysteriously, they looked like the undulations of
some vast sheet of dark blue cloth. They came rolling in quietly and
regularly like the ranks of an advancing army; and, on the side of the
wide ocean, they sloped but very gently, as though the deep were too
languid to exert itself. But, on the land-side, the slope was steep and
the columns of water came on black as an advancing wall. At first, and
seen at a distance, the tops of these advancing waves were smooth and
round; but as the watery mass neared the land and the wave rose higher
and higher, so gradually did it narrow and grow sharper at the top;
and the billows seemed to succeed one another at shorter intervals. At
length, the tops lost their rounded form altogether--they became
a mere ridge which began to fret angrily--then they sharpened to a
mere line which, fast and furious, seemed eager to outstrip the wave
itself. A moment after, this line of water began to bend forward,
forward, forward still, until it formed an arc of immeasurable
length. Presently that graceful curve seemed to fly to pieces and
shake itself into a ragged crest of silver foam; and, at last, the
entire mass came toppling down, covering the sea with thick milk-white
froth which came sparkling, and thundering, and dashing itself into
blinding spray against the wall of trachyte which seemed to say to
the mighty element: "Hitherto shalt thou come and no farther."

