Anna did not venture to look down into the sheer depth below her, where
the waters were boiling in their fury. She feared that a look into that
giddy depth might shake her resolution should she actually be compelled
to attempt the descent. She gazed out far away to the horizon. There,
almost due west, she could clearly see Noesa Kembangan, that beautiful
hilly island which, with its luxurious vegetation, seemed to float as
a basket of flowers on the watery expanse. She could clearly discern
its lighthouse standing on the Tjemering hill--standing out clear
against the light blue sky like a pillar of cloud arising from among
the foliage. Here and there the bosom of the ocean was dotted with a
white sail like some big sea-bird disporting itself upon the glassy
surface. And, as if chance had wished to accentuate that resemblance,
just then a flight of snow-white cranes came hovering by, forming
a dull white stripe on the azure sky. They flew harshly screeching
towards the West, on their way, probably, to the fishy lagoons and
morasses which there abound. The swift and easy flight of these
birds suggested a sad thought to poor Anna: "Oh, that I had wings,"
she sighed, "that I also could fly, fly far away and be at rest!"

And then her fancy carried her back to the past. The image of Charles
van Nerekool rose up vividly before her. As in a dream she pictured
to herself how happy she might have been by her lover's side. She
could hear that "invitation à la valse" and to its delightful melody
she seemed once again to float about with his arm around her. She
could hear his first murmured confession of love. She again passed
through those delicious moments after the dance in the quiet garden
of the Residence. Before her, arose the Pandan grove in which Charles
had gently detained her to reiterate his declaration of love. At the
rhythmical swell and thunder of the ocean, which was giving forth its
mighty melody at her feet, she fancied she could hear again the soft
duet played by the cornet and the piccolo:

