
"Un jour l'âme ravie,
Je vous vis si jolie,
Que je vous crus sortie
Du céleste séjour.
Etait-ce donc un ange, une femme,
Qui venait d'embraser mon âme?
Las! Je ne sais encore.... Mais depuis ce beau jour
Je sais que j'aime d'un pur amour."


She felt once again her lover's arm around her waist and his voice
she could hear whispering to her softly, and saying:

"Anna, my darling, I love you, I love you more dearly than words can
express, more dearly than my mother, than my sister, more dearly than
my own life!"

Oh! those precious words! Ah! that heavenly moment! And then, dreaming
on, she heard:

"Tell me, Anna, tell me. Do you love me, dearest? I know I have already
had your answer; but repeat that word once again, now that we are here
alone--now that we are here, far from the noise of the world--repeat
that little word now, as we are standing under the eye of God himself!"

She had treasured up those words. They were engraven as it were,
in her heart. Then she could feel the kiss--the first kiss of love
which set the seal to her murmured reply. She could feel--

But, as at Santjoemeh, so here again, she was destined to be roughly
startled out of her reverie. She fancied she could hear the voice of
her mother. She would have cur-- No, no, not that, she had not the
heart to curse anyone; but she cast one reproachful look upwards to
heaven, as she felt how so much bliss had been turned to misery and
woe. The pleasant dream had vanished.

"A blighted life!" she sighed, "a blighted life!"

A sudden shriek shook her up out of her day-dream.

"Nana!" cried Dalima, "the gentlemen are coming."

And indeed, to Anna's horror, she then saw in the bend of the
path Murowski, van Nerekool, and Grenits, coming along with all
speed. Without taking one instant for deliberation she dashed down
the slope which led to the awful precipice before her.

"Nana! Nana!" cried Dalima beside herself with terror, "what are
you about?"

The poor Javanese girl did her best to follow her companion; but,
before she could fairly stagger to her feet, Anna was far ahead of
her, and, fagged and exhausted as Dalima was, she could not pursue
her quickly enough. As she neared the edge of the slope which ended
in a perpendicular wall of rock running straight down to the sea,
she could see Anna lay hold of the upper steps of the rottang-ladder
which led down to the deep below.

