"Nana! Nana!" she cried in heartrending accents.

She rushed on--she saw her young mistress place one foot carefully
upon the ladder--she saw her body gradually disappearing.

"Nana! Nana!"

Now, only Anna's head was visible. That also disappeared, and she
could only see one hand clutching at the topmost rung.

"Nana! Nana!"

The hand let go its hold before Dalima could bend forward to grasp
it. It was gone--gone!

Then the Javanese girl flung herself flat upon the ground and peered
over the edge of the fearful precipice which yawned beneath her. What
she saw there was enough to freeze the young blood in her veins. But
she had no time to waste in gazing with horror at what was going
on below.

Once again she shrieked, "Nana! Nana!"

Just then she felt some one grasp her arm. She looked up, and van
Nerekool was standing beside her.

"You here, Dalima!" cried he, not understanding in the least what
was going on. "Where is nonna Anna?"

"Allah! tobat toean!" cried Dalima, still lying on the ground, but
pointing with horror down into the deep.

"There? There?" exclaimed Charles beside himself with terror, while
he flung himself down on the ground and gazed into that frightful
precipice.

Fortunately Grenits and Murowski were close behind their friend. He was
in a fearfully dangerous position, as he, regardless of all caution,
hung over the wall of rock, and it was well for him that his friends
firmly grasped his legs.

"Charles! Charles!" they cried.

"Anna! Anna!" cried van Nerekool in despair--for yonder, far beneath
him, he could see the girl cautiously climbing down the long ladder
which, made of rottang ropes, was dangling and swaying about under
the burden it had to carry.

The foot of this crazy ladder dipped into the sea, and was being
swayed about by the breakers as they came rolling in shore.

When a wave thundered up it swept the end of the ladder into the
cave as the water rushed into the opening; and then, when it receded
spouting out of the mouth with the force of a cataract, the foot of
the ladder was whirled away again in the opposite direction. This
violent motion repeatedly dashed Anna up against the face of the
rock as she was dangling there far above the surface of the sea, and
every now and then a roller would dash its blinding spray upward as
if greedy for its prey.

