At that fearful sight van Nerekool shuddered.

"Anna! Anna!" he called again and again in heartrending tones.

His voice seemed to reach her above the din of the water. Timidly she
glanced upwards. When she saw that face which showed clearly against
the blue sky, and which she recognised in an instant, she uttered a
faint shriek and hurried down faster than before.

Van Nerekool sprang to his feet.

"I must go down!" cried he nervously.

And before his friends could do anything to prevent him, he had grasped
the top of the ladder, had stretched out one foot over the abyss, had
placed it into one of the rungs, and had begun his perilous descent.

It was now Murowski's turn, and Grenits's turn, to fling themselves
down flat on the ground.

Certainly it was a horrifying sight to behold those two human beings
dangling above that roaring sea on one frail ladder of rope. The two
men could not speak, they could hardly breathe, so intense was the
excitement and tension of that moment. There they lay gazing down,
utterly powerless to stretch out even a finger to save their friend.

As soon as Anna perceived that van Nerekool was following her she
obeyed the impulse which had driven her to flight, and tried to
descend more rapidly than before. But, another thought came flashing
upon her. She had heard the dessa-people at Ajo talking a great deal
about the Goewah Temon. She knew, from them, that, at low water,
the entrance to the cave might be reached; and that then the cave
itself might be entered. She knew also that this entrance could only
be gained by swimming, because the bottom of the cavity was quite
six feet below the lowest water mark. She did not mind that, for she
could swim like a duck; but--! but--! all this was only practicable
at ebb tide, at dead low water, and when the sea was calm and there
were no breakers rolling in.

But now--! now the waves were dashing with terrific violence against
that trachyte wall--It seemed as if every successive wave reached
higher--Yet she descended--further down--still down--

