"Anna! Anna!" cried Charles above her head.

At length she reached the top of the vaulted cavity. She knew that,
at low water, the opening was about fifty feet high, but how narrow
did it look just then! Indeed the greater part of it was covered by
the sea. She fancied she might just manage to reach the courses of
rottang-rope which led from the mouth of the hole to its interior to
assist the gatherers of swallows' nests in their perilous work.

She was putting out her hand to feel for one of those cables.

But, as she did so, a wave of enormous strength came rolling up and
broke at her feet with a crash like thunder, and fearfully shook the
foot of the ladder which hung loosely floating about at the entrance
of the cave.

Terrified out of her senses, the young girl lost her presence of
mind altogether. She let go her grip, and fell backward into the
seething water.

"A blighted life!" was her last cry as she fell.

Van Nerekool had looked down, as he felt the huge wave approaching--he
saw his beloved Anna fall backward--he saw her floating in that boiling
surf--he saw her tossed and rolled about like a log in that thick mass
of white foam. For the merest fraction of a second he could see her
glorious mass of jet-black hair waving on the gleaming surface--and
then--all was sucked up into the cave and disappeared from his view.

To him, she was now lost for ever! There he was, helplessly dangling
above the precipice which had just swallowed up his dearest treasure
on earth, and--for an instant he knew not what to do. The next moment
came the lull and the huge billow was hurrying back to sea. Then the
young man saw the immense volume of water spouting out of the cave
with magnificent energy; but--in that clear blue column, as it rushed
forth, his eye could catch nothing which looked like a human body;
and it flashed upon him that, dead or alive, Anna must have been left
behind in the cave. She might have clutched hold of some projecting
rock, her clothing might have caught somewhere. Quick as lightning he
darted down the ladder. The top of that cave he must get to before
the next wave came tumbling in. With feverish eagerness he clutched
the rungs--he made no use of his feet--he rather slid down and--he
just contrived to grasp one of the rottang cables, and get his feet
clear of the ladder when, another wave gave it a violent shake which
might have compelled him to let go his grip and might have swallowed
him up as it had done Anna.

