Van Nerekool was now, comparatively speaking, safe. Two sturdy cables
of considerable thickness were stretched out parallel to one another
all along the inner wall of the grot. At intervals these were fastened
by gemoetoe cords to the salient parts of the rock. On the lower of
these cables Charles could plant his feet, while with his hands he
grasped the upper one. Beneath him the sea was roaring and over his
head and all around him fluttered the sea-swallows uttering their
shrill cries and darting in and out of the mouth of the cave through
the blinding spray.

Grenits and Murowski from the top of the cliff had eagerly watched
all that had passed. They had been horrified at seeing Anna fall and
van Nerekool disappear in the cavity.

"Well!" cried one of them, "what to do now?"

"We can do no good up here," said the other.

Dalima begged them to tell her what they had seen, and as soon as
she had heard it she cried:

"We must be off at once to the loerah of the dessa Ajo. He has a boat
with which, I know, he occasionally visits the Goewahs."

And that brave little Javanese girl, forgetting all about herself and
her painful condition, shook off her fatigue and was already far down
the pathway before the Europeans had found time to follow her. And,
when they came to the foot of the mountain they found the boat of
which Dalima had spoken.

The loerah made a very wry face when he heard the project of the two
Europeans. To try and get to the Goewah Temon in such weather! It
could not be done. He pointed to the mouth of the Kali Djeties. There
the mountain water flowing down was struggling with the rising tide
and made the breakers fly up in clouds of spray. At the sight, which
was indeed an awful one, the two friends all but despaired. Must they
then give up all hope? Must they leave van Nerekool to perish without
an effort?

"I will give you fifty guilders, loerah!" cried Grenits, "if you
bring me up to the cave!"

The Javanese chief scratched the back of his head in sore perplexity.

