"And I," cried Murowski, "I give another fifty!"

The loerah began to waver. He exchanged a few anxious words
with a couple of men who stood by his side. These seemed not so
scrupulous. With a gesture of assent they at once sprang into the
boat into which the Europeans took their seats also.

"Look here," cried Grenits almost cheerfully, "each of you fellows
shall have five-and-twenty guilders if we succeed!"

"I will give the same to each of you," said Murowski, "and now give
way with all your might."

The loerah had taken his place in the afterpart of the crazy boat and
he held the steering paddle. Even Dalima and our two friends Grenits
and Murowski had armed themselves with a paddle and prepared to help
the rowers to the best of their ability. Under the impulse of these
six blades the boat shot rapidly ahead.

At first, as long as the boat was in the bay all went well. The loerah
steered straight for the middle of the entrance of the Moeara; for he
was anxious to avoid the tossing and the dangerous back-draught of the
water along the coast, and thus, helped on by the stream of the river,
the little boat sped on like an arrow released from the bowstring. But,
as they gradually got into the estuary, the force of the ocean began to
make itself felt. The current began to decrease more and more until at
length it was no longer perceptible. Now small waves began to beat up
against the keel, and these presently increased in size and power as
they coursed along the sides and gave a kind of pounding or stamping
motion to the little boat. Still the canoe travelled on--it got into
the midst of the foam caused by the breakers and into the eddies formed
by the retreating waves. The little cockle-shell seemed dancing on
foam. The loerah, who knew that the critical moment was approaching,
was sitting in the stern his lips tightly compressed. He wore an
anxious and determined look as he clutched his steering-paddle which,
at one time, the wave strove, as it were, to pluck from his grasp,
and at another the violent swaying of the boat threatened to wrench
from him.

