He was keeping a most anxious look-out, it was a question of life
or death. Could he venture to go on? When the billow broke, the
hollow tree-stem was at a considerable distance from it. But now the
question was: could they hope to get over the distance between that
mountain of water and the next one before it also would break? No,
he thought they could not. The risk was too great to run. Still he
kept looking out and, in the far distance, the next mass of water
came steadily rolling up. It was coming on like a towering hill. To
the men sitting in that frail canoe it looked like a mountain. The
little boat was still hurrying on and, though very unsteadily, yet
the five paddles kept way on her. The great wave every instant came
nearer and nearer--at length it seemed to rear--it rose as it were
perpendicularly over that nutshell, which seemed mad enough to brave
its fury. Already it began to form its silvery white crest and appeared
like a solid wall of polished blue glittering under the sun's beams.

"Easy all," shouted the loerah, who had the while been carefully
watching the approaching wave.

At the word the paddles ceased to move, and the boat lost all the way
she had on her. But just then it seemed as if, without any impulse
at all, the little boat was hurrying to meet the huge billow. It
looked as if she must inevitably be swallowed up in that mighty curl
of water which was about to form.

"Back her, back her!" shouted the loerah as he plied his paddle
vigorously.

Fortunately the frail boat immediately obeyed the reversed action of
the paddles, and was drawing back at the moment when the mass of water
was beginning to topple over. One moment, indeed it was only for the
fraction of a second, the inmates of the canoe caught a glimpse of that
vast cave of water, that enormous cylinder of light-blue transparent
crystal. But still the wave continued to curl, to describe something
like three quarters of a complete arc, and then--it came crashing
down at a few paces from where the boat lay, it came crashing down
with a sound like thunder, and covered the entire surface of the sea
with thick, milk-white foam. "Give way, give way!" now fairly roared
the loerah and, impelled by those sturdy arms, the boat shot ahead
over the whirling eddies, through the dense foam flakes, while the
terrible force of water went dashing up the mouth of the Moeara.

