Now came the time for exertion; for she must be well away out of that
place before the back-sweep of the retreating wave could overtake her,
she must be fairly out to sea before another such breaker could come
upon her.

The men plied their paddles furiously, and the small craft shot ahead
with lightning speed. A little while, one supreme effort, and then
she began to rise.

"Give way! Give way!" again shouted the loerah and, redoubling his
own efforts, he encouraged his men to row vigorously.

Thus impelled under the frantic strokes of the rowers, the boat was
driven up the slope of the wave, which had not yet become dangerously
steep. For an instant the little shell hung balancing on that watery
edge, her ends hovering in the air, only the centre of her keel
resting on the water, and then, she quietly slid down the opposite
pent and all were out of danger.

The loerah thereupon steered a southerly course; but yet it took a
considerable time to reach the mouth of the Goewah. When they got
near the cave the ebb tide had fairly set in, and the helmsman had
to exercise only ordinary prudence to pilot the boat into the cavity.

Meanwhile what had been going on inside? When van Nerekool had gained
a footing on one of the cables, he had at once cautiously begun to
advance, groping his way in the twilight which reigned in the cave.

It struck him that the subterranean vault, into which he was now
venturing, was of considerable extent, and ran in far under the base
of the mountains; but at the same time, he noticed that the bottom of
the cave gradually rose, so that the sea, excepting in a few holes here
and there, only penetrated about two hundred feet into the interior.

But, within that space, the water had full sway, and was raging
furiously.

At first, he could hardly see anything: but presently his eyes
became more accustomed to the gloom, and he began, moreover, to feel
more confidence in the feat of tight-rope walking he was trying
to accomplish. Thus he advanced deeper and deeper still into the
cavity. At length, close beside a slab of trachyte against which the
water was dashing furiously, he thought he could descry something.

