Taking advantage of every prominent bit of rock he carefully let
himself down, and he was fortunate enough to succeed in reaching the
mass of trachyte. He found its surface uneven enough to give firm
foothold, and at length he found some natural steps by which he could
venture to descend to the water's edge. And when he got there--there
was his Anna, quite unconscious! She had, in her drowning agony,
clutched at the rugged face of the rock. The lower part of her body
lay floating about in the water; but her head was resting on her arm,
which encircled one of the out-jutting pieces of stone.

Charles seized her, he grasped her waist and tried to drag her up
against the face of the boulder. The tide was rising and he had need
to make haste; for every moment it seemed more probable that Anna
would be washed away by the back-rushing waves. By dint of putting
forth all his strength, Charles at length succeeded in dragging her
to the upper surface of the slab, and then he sat down beside her. He
took off his coat and spread it out upon the stone to make his Anna as
comfortable a resting place as he could. Her head was resting on his
lap and, in that position, he allowed her for awhile quietly to rest.

A single glance around had satisfied van Nerekool of the fact that
the highest tides had never reached the top of the block of stone,
and that therefore they were, as far as the sea was concerned, in a
place of safety.

With his handkerchief he gently wiped away the sea-water from her pale
countenance, and he took a strange delight in spreading out upon his
knees her luxuriant mass of black-hair as if to dry it. He knew also
that it would be worse than useless to try and get out of the cave
before low water, the violence of the waves was too great to admit
of any such hope. But, he thought, that, at dead-low water it might
be possible to reach the ladder which was still tossing about in the
entrance of the cave. By that time he had no doubt that Anna would have
regained consciousness, and he knew she could swim. Then once on the
ladder--However! he thought, time will bring counsel! Thus musing he
gazed down at the beautiful girl who lay there helpless on his knees,
Murowski, he thought, and Grenits would surely do something to come
to the rescue.

