It was indeed a critical moment in the young man's life. There,
stretched out before him, lay the one being who was dearer to him
than all the earth, the one being whom he adored with all the power of
his soul, the one being who had robbed him of sleep and deprived him
of rest, whose dear image was always and everywhere floating before
him. The one human being whom he longed for, whom he yearned to call
his own, with all the passionate eagerness and all the tenderness of
his impulsive nature.

Anna, in her Javanese dress, was covered only by her sarong and
kabaja. The slendang, which had served as her head-dress, she had
lost in her descent down the ladder. This extremely primitive costume,
made of the lightest and most flimsy materials, was now wet through;
and there lay the poor girl unconscious on the lap of her lover,
who was suffering torments which might fitly have found a place in
Dante's Inferno.

The dim twilight and the finely divided spray which hung all around
seemed to bathe that virgin form in a kind of mystic ether and imparted
to the entire scene something weird and sublime.

Slowly--very slowly--time rolled on--too slowly for poor Charles
van Nerekool.

Meanwhile the water no longer rose, and the turn of the tide was
beginning to be felt. Every wave which rushed in, roared and boiled
and foamed just as did the former one; but yet the water did not
reach quite so high, nor did the waves rage so furiously.

But, hours would have to elapse before Charles could venture to make
for the opening.

"Oh, if Anna would but awake," sighed van Nerekool, who, not for an
instant, had moved his eyes from the beloved object, "oh, that she
would awake! In her own presence she would find a much more powerful
protector than in me!"

His prayer was heard. Still insensible, Anna mechanically made an
attempt to wipe away some drops of water from her brow. Charles
tried to assist her in this, he tried to put up his handkerchief;
but in doing so he had stooped and his hot feverish breath fell on
the face and neck of the girl.

