This startled Anna and, at length, she opened her eyes. She turned
her head, she looked about inquiringly, not able to make out where
she was; presently her eye fell upon Charles.

With a loud scream she made an effort to start up, "You, you here?" she
exclaimed, and again she tried to rise and run away.

But van Nerekool gently put his arm round her waist, and drew her to
his breast:

"Anna," said he, "dearest Anna, do take care, do be quiet--you will
slip down--the sea is still much too high."

"You here!" she cried half-dazed, "I shall--I will--" And once again
she attempted to wrench herself out of his arms.

"Anna," said he soothingly, "do be quiet, do be prudent! the rock is
wet and slippery. Be careful, you are yet in great danger."

His voice was so low and he spoke so tenderly, that the young girl
gave up her wild attempt. But when her eye fell upon her own person
and she discovered in what a state she was lying in the young man's
arms, she once again tried to shake herself free. The sea-water had
washed the stain off her face, and the bright scarlet blush was now
plainly visible as she cast down her eyes in dire distress.

"Leave me, Charles," she stammered in confusion, "do leave me!"

But he only clasped her tighter to his heart, and covered her face
with burning kisses.

"Anna, I love you--Anna, I have found you again!" he exclaimed,
passionately, "and never, never again shall I leave you."

"But, Charles, do have pity on me," pleaded the poor girl in faltering
accents, as she again strove to free herself from his embrace,
"yours I can, I may--never be."

"Anna," cried he huskily, as he pressed her closer and closer still
to his breast.

She probably misunderstood his action--at all events she continued
very, very sadly: "No, Charles, your wife I can never be--and--oh,
you love me too well, do you not?--to have any other thoughts."

The poor girl said these words in a voice so unutterably sad that van
Nerekool felt at once that he had unwittingly wounded her modesty. At
once he released her, though he still kept his arm round her waist.

