"Thanks!" he said, "thanks! Oh I know well that just now you can
give me no other answer. Thanks again and again. But Anna, now we
must take to the water, we must be off."

Both were on the point of entering the sea and beginning their perilous
journey, when voices were heard outside the cave. Charles and Anna
looked at one another in surprise; but in another moment they saw
Dalima, Grenits, and Murowski, accompanied by a couple of Javanese,
who--the reader knows in what manner--appeared in a canoe at the
mouth of the cave.

"Great heavens!" exclaimed poor Anna, as she cast a look at her
clothing. "And I in this wet dress!"

She blushed scarlet as she saw the sarong and kabaja clinging to her
limbs. She felt, moreover, that Charles was gazing at her; and this
only augmented her confusion. Charles, however, took up the coat on
which she had been seated and offered it to her as a covering.

Meanwhile the little boat had been coming up and Grenits and Murowski,
and especially Dalima, were beside themselves with joy when they
found that the friends, whom they had given up for lost, were alive
and well. The loerah of the dessa Ajo had flung a couple of sarongs
into his boat before starting, to wrap up the bodies in, he had said,
so certain was he that the pair must have perished. But, these two
garments now came in very handy. Anna was able to wrap herself well
in them, and in this Dalima was eager to help her. Then she stepped
into the boat. In a few minutes they had left the Goewah Temon and,
two hours later, Anna, Dalima, van Nerekool, Grenits and Murowski
were safely and comfortably seated together in the little house on
the slope of the Goenoeng Poleng.

At that meeting, plans for the future were very speedily determined
upon, and the sun had scarcely reached the zenith, before Anna
and Dalima were seated, each in a litter, and were on their way to
Karang Anjer. The gentlemen formed the escort to the two litters;
and a very formidable escort they looked, armed, as they were, with
their fowling pieces.

