At the house of the Steenvlaks Anna met with the most cordial
reception. There she determined to remain until--Well, yes! until
the days of her mourning were passed.

After all this had been properly settled the young men returned to
Gombong. Theodoor and Charles at once went to the captain who was
in command there, to take leave of him and to thank him for having
granted their friend Murowski leave to accompany them.

"Well, gentlemen," cried the bluff but kind-hearted soldier as he
caught sight of them, "have you had any luck?"

"Oh yes," cried Grenits, "we have had splendid success!"

"That is right, I am glad to hear it. And did you get any good
specimens?"

"Glorious specimens, captain!" exclaimed Murowski, roguishly,
"splendid specimens! Why, amongst others we have had the luck to
catch a magnificent, a unique butterfly--a puella formosa."

"Very good, I wish you luck with the little beast, but for heaven's
sake don't bother me with your Latin."

Even van Nerekool could not refrain from laughing as he thought of
the little butterfly they had captured.

Fourteen months later Anna van Gulpendam and Charles van Nerekool
became man and wife. The wedding took place very simply and without the
slightest display, at the house of Assistant Resident Steenvlak. August
van Beneden and Theodoor Grenits gave away the bride, and Edward
van Rheijn and the Polish doctor Murowski were witnesses for the
bridegroom.

At the conclusion of the marriage ceremony, who should suddenly turn
up but William Verstork. After the death of Resident van Gulpendam,
he had been at once recalled to Santjoemeh where his merits were well
known and where he was highly esteemed. No one expected to see him
at the wedding; for a telegram had brought the news that the steamer
in which he travelled from Batavia had run ashore and had stuck fast
somewhere about Tegal. But, when he found that getting the ship off
the shallows would be a long business, Verstork had left her and
gone ashore, and then had posted all the way to Karang Anjer. He was
determined, at any cost, to be present at his friend's wedding. But,
on his journey, he had been unavoidably delayed, and thus came too late
to take part in the actual ceremony, though in ample time to join, on
that auspicious day, in the warm congratulations which were showered
on the young couple. Yes, if ever there were hearty congratulations
and sincere good wishes they were indeed those which the young people
received from the friends who, in the absence of nearer relations on
either side, were then gathered around them.

