After the wedding, Mr. and Mrs. van Nerekool started for Tjilatjap
intending there to take the boat to Batavia where van Nerekool had
obtained a judicial appointment. The others returned to their own
spheres of work. Murowski remained at Gombong and the others went to
Santjoemeh and resumed their everyday duties.

But all of them, to a man, were animated with one resolution and had
determined that thenceforward it should rule all their actions. And
that resolution was, to carry on war--implacable war--war à outrance
against the horrors of the opium traffic. If they could only succeed in
abolishing the fatal system of opium farming--if they could but succeed
in preventing that poison from being forced upon the population,
then they felt assured that abuse of opium would soon cease to be
a curse of the fair island of Java; and that the opium-fiend would
soon lose his power.

And now we conclude with the person who gives her name to this book.

We must tell our readers that a few months after baboe Dalima had
found those whom she loved so faithfully and so well in the cave of
the Karang Bollong mountain range, she became the mother of a dead
child. That had been a great blow to her; for, in spite of the foul
outrage of which she had been the victim, her warm little heart had
eagerly looked forward to the advent of the little stranger. She had
so looked forward to love the poor little thing. Oh, how tenderly
she would have nursed it, how she would have fondled it and caressed
it--as perhaps no other mother had ever done before her. Such were
her dreams. She had already prepared its cradle. Not such a thing as
we cold Western folk understand by the word; no, no, it was a very
simple little basket, woven by her own fingers out of bamboo. But that
little crib she had made so cosy, so comfortable; she had furnished
it with the softest cushions and wrapped round it the best of her
sarongs to keep away the mosquitoes by night and ward off the sun's
rays by day. It would be a little nest which she would hang up in the
front gallery of the small cottage in which she meant to take up her
abode, and, as she softly would rock it to and fro she would play on
the gambang and lull her little bird to sleep with her low sweet song.

