The Project Gutenberg eBook, British Borneo, by W. H. Treacher


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: British Borneo
Sketches of Brunai, Sarawak, Labuan, and North Borneo


Author: W. H. Treacher



Release Date: December 16, 2008  [eBook #27547]

Language: English


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BRITISH BORNEO***


E-text prepared by a Project Gutenberg volunteer from digital material
generously made available by Internet Archive (http://www.archive.org)



Note: Images of the original pages are available through
Internet Archive. See
http://www.archive.org/details/yonderyo00gavarich





BRITISH BORNEO:

Sketches of Brunai, Sarawak, Labuan, and North Borneo.

by

W. H. TREACHER, C.M.G., M.A. OXON.,
Secretary to the Government of Perak,
Formerly Administrator of Labuan and
H.B.M. Acting Consul-General in Borneo,
First Governor of British North Borneo.







Reprinted from the Journal of the Straits Settlements Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society.

Singapore:
Printed at the Government Printing Department.
1891.




TABLE OF CONTENTS.


CHAPTER I. PAGES 1-11.

THE Hudson's Bay Company's Charter, 1670. British North Borneo
Company's Charter, November 1881, as a territorial power. The
example followed by Germany. Borneo the second largest island in
the world. Visited by Friar Odoric, 1322, by Berthema, 1503; but
not generally known until, in 1518 Portuguese, and in 1521
Spanish, expeditions touched there. Report of Pigafetta, the
companion of Magellan, who found there a Chinese trading
community. Origin of the name Borneo; sometimes known as
Kalamantan. Spanish attack on Brunai, 1573. First Dutch
connection, 1600; first British connection, 1609. Diamonds.
Factory established by East India Company at Banjermassin, 1702,
expelled by natives. British capture of Manila, 1762, and
acquisition of Balambangan, followed by cession of Northern Borneo
and part of Palawan. Spanish claims to Borneo abandoned by
Protocol, 1885. Factory established at Balambangan, 1771, expelled
by Sulus, 1775; re-opened 1803 and abandoned the following year.
Temporary factory at Brunai. Pepper trade. Settlement of
Singapore, 1819. Attracted trade of Borneo, Celebes, &c. Pirates.
Brooke acquired Sarawak 1840, the first permanent British
possession. Labuan a British Colony, 1846. The Dutch protest.
Their possessions in Borneo. Spanish claims. Concessions of
territory acquired by Mr. Dent, 1877-78. The monopolies of the
first Europeans ruined trade: better prospect now opening. United
States connection with Borneo. Population. Malays, their Mongolian
origin. Traces of a Caucasic race, termed Indonesians. Buludupih
legend. Names of aboriginal tribes. Pagans and Mahomedans.

