
CHAPTER II. PAGES 11-33.

Description of Brunai, the capital, and its river. Not a typical
Malayan river. Spanish Catholic Mission. British Consulate. Inche
Mahomed. Moses and a former American Consulate. Pigafetta's
estimate of population in 1521, 150,000. Present estimate, 12,000.
Decay of Brunai since British connection. Life of a Brunai noble;
of the children; of the women. Modes of acquiring slaves: 'forced
trade.' Condition of slaves. Character and customs of Brunai
Malays. Their religion, gambling, cock-fighting: _amoks_,
marriage. Sultan and ministers and officers of the state. How
paid. Feudal rights--Ka-rájahan, Kouripan, Pusaka. Ownership of
land. Modes of taxation. Laws. Hajis. Punishments. Executions. A
naval officer's mistake. No army, navy, or police, but the people
universally armed. Cannon foundries. Brass guns as currency.
Dollars and copper coinage. Taxation. Revenue; tribute from
Sarawak and North Borneo; coal resources.


CHAPTER III. PAGES 33-62.

Pigafetta's description of Brunai in 1521. Elephants. Reception by
the King. Use of spirituous liquors. Population. Floating Market.
Spoons. Ladies appearing in public. Obeisance. Modes of addressing
nobles. The use of yellow confined to the Royal Family. Umbrellas
closed when passing the Palace. Nobles only can sit in the stern
of a boat. Ceremonies at a Royal reception; bees-wax candles.

Mr. Dalrymple's description of Brunai in 1884. Quakers' meeting.
Way to a Malay's heart lies through his pocket. Market place and
hideous women. Beauties of the Harems. Present population.
Cholera. Exports. Former Chinese pepper plantations. Good water
supply. Nobles corrupt; lower classes not. The late Sultan Mumim.
The present Sultan. Kampongs, or parishes and guilds. Methods of
fishing: Kèlongs; Rambat; peculiar mode of prawn-catching;
Serambau; Pukat; hook and line; tuba fishing. Sago. Tobacco; its
growth and use. Areca-nut; its use and effects. Costumes of men
and women. Jewellery. Weapons. The _kris_; _parang_; _bliong_;
_parang ílang_. The Kayans imitated by the Dyaks in a curious
personal adornment. Canoes: dug-outs; _pakerangan_; prahus;
tongkangs; steering gear; similarity to ancient Vikings' boat;
boat races. Paddling. The Brunais teetotallers and temperate.
Business and political negotiations transacted through agents.
Time no object. The place of signatures taken by seals or _chops_.
The great seal of state. Brunais styled by the aborigines, _Orang
Abai_. By religion Mahomedans, but Pagan superstitions cling to
them; instances. Traces of Javanese and Hindu influences. A native
chronicle of Brunai; Mahomedanism established about 1478;
connection of Chinese with Borneo; explanation of the name
Kina-balu applied to the highest mountain in the island. Pepper
planting by Chinese in former years. Mention of Brunai in Chinese
history. Tradition of an expedition by Kublai Khan. The Chinese
driven away by misgovernment. Their descendants in the Bundu
district. Other traces of Chinese intercourse with Borneo. Their
value as immigrants. European expeditions against Brunai. How
Rajah Brooke acquired Sarawak amidst the roar of cannon. Brooke's
heroic disinterestedness. His appointment as British confidential
agent in Borneo. The episode of the murder of Rajah Muda Hassim
and his followers. Brunai attacked by Admiral Sir Thomas Cochrane.
Captain Rodney Mundy follows the Sultan into the jungle. The
batteries razed and peace proclaimed.

