
CHAPTER IV. PAGES 63-77.

Sarawak under the Brooke dynasty. By incorporation of other rivers
extends over 40,000 square miles, coast line 380 miles, population
280,000. Limbang annexed by Sarawak. Further extension impossible.
The Trusan river; 'trowser wearers'; acquired by Sarawak. The
Limbang, the rice pot of Brunai. The Cross flown in the Muhamadan
capital by pagan savages. A launch decorated with skulls. Dyak
militia, the Sarawak 'Rangers,' and native police force. Peace of
Sarawak kept by the people. Cheap government. Absolute Monarchy.
Nominated Councils. The 'Civil Service,' 'Residents.' Law, custom,
equity and common sense. Slavery abolished. Sources of
revenue--'Opium Farm' monopoly, poll tax, customs, excise, fines
and fees. Revenue and expenditure. Early financial straits.
Sarawak offered to England, France and Holland. The Borneo Company
(Ltd.). Public debt. Advantages of Chinese immigration 'Without
the Chinese we can do nothing.' Java an exception. Chinese are
good traders, agriculturists, miners, artizans, &c.: sober and
law-abiding. Chinese secret societies and faction fights; death
penalty for membership. Insurrection of Chinese, 1857. Chinese
pepper and gambier planters. Exports--sago and jungle produce.
Minerals--antimony, cinnabar, coal. Trade--agriculture.
Description of the capital--Kuching. Sir Henry Keppel and Sir
James Brooke. Piracy. 'Head money.' Charges against Sir J. Brooke.
Recognition of Sarawak by United States and England. British
protectorate. Death of Sir J. Brooke. Protestant and Roman
Catholic Missions. Bishops MacDougal and Hose. Father Jackson.
Mahomedans' conversion not attempted.


CHAPTER V. PAGES 77-84.

Incident of the Limbang rebellion against Sultan of Brunai.
Oppression of the nobles. Irregular taxation--Chukei basoh batis,
bongkar sauh, tulongan, chop bibas, &c. The orang kayas. Repulse
of the Tummonggong. Brunai threatened. Intervention of the writer
as acting Consul General. Datu Klassi. Meeting broken up on news
of attack by Muruts. Sultan's firman eventually accepted.
Demonstration by H.M.S. _Pegasus_. 'Cooking heads' in Brunai
river. Death of Sultan Mumim. Conditions of firman not observed by
successor. Sir Frederick Weld visits and reports on North Borneo
and Brunai. Legitimate extension of Sarawak to be encouraged.

