
CHAPTER VIII. PAGES 103-117.

Area of British North Borneo exceeds that of Ceylon; points of
similarity; styled 'The New Ceylon.' Joseph Hatton's book. Tobacco
planters attracted from Sumatra. Coast-line, harbours, stations.
Sandakan town and harbour; founded by Mr. Pryer. Destroyed by
fire. Formerly used as a blockade station by Germans trading with
Sulu. Capture of the blockade runner _Sultana_ by the Spaniards.
Rich virgin soil and fever. Owing to propinquity of Hongkong and
Singapore, North Borneo cannot become an emporium for eastern
trade. Its mineralogical resources not yet ascertained. Gold,
coal, and other minerals known to exist. Gold on the Segama river.
Rich in timber. 'Billian' or iron-wood; camphor. Timber Companies.
On board one of Her Majesty's ships billian proved three times as
durable as lignum vitæ. Mangrove forests. Monotony of tropical
scenery. Trade--a list of exports. Edible birds'-nests.
Description of the great Gomanton birds'-nests caves. Mr
Bampfylde. Bats' Guano. Mode of collecting nests. Lady and Miss
Brassey visit the Madai caves, 1887. Bêche-de-mer, shark fins,
cuttle fish. Position of Sandakan on the route between Australia
and China--importance as a possible naval station. Shipping.
Postal arrangements. Coinage. Currency. Banking. Probable cable
station.


CHAPTER IX. PAGES 117-127.

Importance of the territory as a field for the cultivation of the
fine tobacco used for 'wrappers.' Profits of Sumatra Tobacco
Companies. Climate and Soil. Rainfall. Seasons. Dr. Walker. The
sacred mountain, Kina-balu. Description of tobacco cultivation.
Chinese the most suitable labour for tobacco; difficulty in
procuring sufficient coolies. Count Geloes d'Elsloo. Coolies
protected by Government. Terms on which land can be acquired.
Tobacco export duty. Tobacco grown and universally consumed by the
natives. Fibre plants. Government experimental garden.
Sappan-wood. Cotton flock.


CHAPTER X. PAGES 127-147.

Erroneous ideas as to the objects of the Company. Difficult to
steal Highlanders' trowsers. Natives 'take no thought for the
morrow.' The Company does not engage in trade or agriculture. The
Company's capital is a loan to the country, to be repaid with
interest as the country developes under its administration. Large
area of land to be disposed of without encroaching on native
rights. Land sales regulations. Registration of titles. Minerals
reserved. Transfer from natives to foreigners effected through the
Government. Form of Government--the Governor, Residents, &c. Laws
and Proclamations. The Indian Penal, Criminal, and Civil procedure
codes adopted. Slavery--provision in the Charter regarding. Slave
legislation by the Company. Summary of Mr. Witti's report on the
slave system. Messrs. Everett and Fryer's reports. Commander
Edwards, R.N., attacks the kidnapping village of Teribas in H.M.S.
_Kestrel_. Slave keeping no longer pays. Religious customs of the
natives preserved by the Charter. Employment of natives as
Magistrates, &c. Head-hunting. Audit of 'Heads Account.' Human
sacrifices. Native punishments for adultery and theft. Causes of
scanty population. Absence of powerful warlike tribes. Head
hunting--its origin. An incident in Labuan. Mr. A. Cook. Mr.
Jesse's report on the Muruts to the East India Company. Good
qualities of the aborigines. Advice to young officers. The
Muhamadans of the coast, the Brunais, Sulus, Bajows. Capture by
Bajows of a boat from an Austrian frigate. Baron Oesterreicher.
Gambling and cattle lifting. The independent intervening rivers.
Fatal affray in the Kawang river: death of de Fontaine, Fraser and
others. Mr. Little. Mr. Whitehead. Bombardment of Bajow villages
by Captain A. K. Hope, R.N., H.M.S. _Zephyr_. Captain Alington,
R.N., in H.M.S. _Satellite_. The Illanuns and Balinini. Absence of
Negritos. The 'tailed' people. Desecration of European graves.
Muhamadans' sepulture. Burial customs of the aborigines.

