
CHAPTER XI. PAGES 147-165.

Importance of introducing Chinese into Borneo. Java not an
example. Sir Walter Medhurst Commissioner of Chinese immigration.
The Hakka Chinese settlers. Sir Spencer St. John on Chinese
immigration. The revenue and expenditure of the territory. Zeal
of the Company's officers. Armed Sikh and Dyak police. Impossible
to raise a native force. Heavy expenditure necessary in the first
instance. Carping critics. Cordial support from Sir Cecil Clementi
Smith and the Government of the Straits Settlements. Visit of Lord
Brassey--his article in the 'Nineteenth Century.' Further
expenditure for roads, &c., will be necessary. What the Company
has done for Borneo. Geographical exploration. Witti and Hatton.
The lake struck off the map. Witti's murder. Hatton's accidental
death. Admiral Mayne, C.B. The _Sumpitan_ or Blow-pipe. Errors
made in opening most colonies, e.g. the Straits Settlements. The
future of the country. The climate not unhealthy as a rule.
Ladies. Game. No tigers. Crocodiles. The native dog. Pig and deer.
Wild cattle. Elephants and Rhinoceros. Bear. Orang-utan.
Long-nosed ape. Pheasants. The Company's motto--_Pergo et perago_.
Governor Creagh. Mr. Kindersley.




BRITISH BORNEO:
SKETCHES OF
BRUNAI, SARAWAK, LABUAN
AND
NORTH BORNEO.




CHAPTER I.


In 1670 CHARLES II granted to the Hudson's Bay Company a Charter of
Incorporation, His Majesty delegating to the Company actual sovereignty
over a very large portion of British North America, and assigning to
them the exclusive monopoly of trade and mining in the territory.
Writing in 1869, Mr. WILLIAM FORSYTH, Q.C., says:--"I have endeavoured
to give an account of the constitution and history of the _last_ of the
great proprietary companies of England, to whom a kind of delegated
authority was granted by the Crown. It was by some of these that distant
Colonies were founded, and one, the most powerful of them all,
established our Empire in the East and held the sceptre of the Great
Mogul. But they have passed away

