*       *       *       *       *       *

We remounted the elephants and returned to the house of the
Governor. * * * After this there came to the house of the
Governor ten men, with as many large wooden trays, in each of
which were ten or twelve porcelain saucers with the flesh of
various animals, that is, of calves, capons, pullets, pea-fowls
and others, and various kinds of fish, so that of meat alone
there were thirty or two-and-thirty dishes. We supped on the
ground on mats of palm-leaf. At each mouthful we drank a
porcelain cupful, the size of an egg, of a distilled liquor made
from rice. We ate also rice and sweetmeats, using spoons of
gold, shaped like our own. In the place where we passed the two
nights, there were always burning two torches of white wax,
placed on tall chandeliers of silver, and two oil lamps of four
wicks each, while two men watched to look after them. Next
morning we came on the same elephants to the sea side, where
forthwith there were ready for us two _prahus_, in which we were
reconducted to the ships."

Of the town itself he says:--

"The city is entirely built in the saltwater, the King's house
and those of some chieftains excepted. It contains 25,000
_fires_, or families. The houses are all of wood and stand on
strong piles to keep them high from the ground. When the flood
tide makes, the women, in boats, go through the city selling
necessaries. In front of the King's palace there is a rampart
constructed of large bricks, with barbacans in the manner of a
fortress, on which are mounted fifty-six brass and six iron
cannon."

With the exception of the statement concerning the number of families,
Mr. CRAWFORD considers PIGAFETTA'S account contains abundant internal
evidence of intelligence and truthfulness. I may be allowed to point out
that, seeing only the King's house and those of some of the nobles were
on _terra firma_, there could have been little use for elephants in the
city and probably the two elephants PIGAFETTA mentions were the only
ones there, kept for State purposes. It is a curious fact that though in
its fauna Borneo much resembles Sumatra, yet, while elephants abound in
the latter island, none are to be found in Borneo, except in a
restricted area on the North-East Coast, in the territories of the North
Borneo Company. It would appear, too, that the tenets of the Mahomedan
religion were not strictly observed in those days. Now, no Brunai noble
would think of offering you spirits, nor would ladies on any account be
permitted to appear in public, especially if Europeans were among the
audience. The consumption of spirits seems to have been on a very
liberal scale, and it is not surprising to find PIGAFETTA remarking
further on that some of the Spaniards became intoxicated. Spoons,
whether of gold or other material, have long since been discarded by all
respectable Brunais, only Pagans make use of such things, the Mahomedans
employ the fingers which Allah has given them. The description of the
women holding their market in boats stands good of to-day, but the
wooden houses, instead of being on "strong piles," now stand on
ricketty, round _nibong_ palm posts. The description of the obeisance to
the King is scarcely exaggerated, except that it is now performed
squatting cross-legged--_sila_--the respectful attitude indoors, from
the Sanskrit çîl, to meditate, to worship (for an inferior never stands
in the presence of his superior), and has been dispensed with in the
case of Europeans, who shake hands. Though the nobles have now
comparatively little power, they address each other and are addressed by
the commonalty in the most respectful tone, words derived from the
Sanskrit being often employed in addressing superiors, or equals if both
are of high rank, such as _Baginda_, _Duli Paduka_, _Ianda_, and in
addressing a superior the speaker only alludes to himself as a slave,
_Amba_, _Sahaya_. I have already referred to the prohibition of the use
of yellow by others than the Royal family, and may add that it is a
grave offence for a person of ordinary rank to pass the palace steps
with his umbrella up, and it is forbidden to him to sit in the after
part of his boat or canoe, that place being reserved for nobles. At an
audience with the Sultan, or with one of the Wazirs, considerable
ceremony is still observed. Whatever the time of the day, a thick bees'
wax candle, about three feet long is lighted and placed on the floor
alongside the European visitor, if he is a person of any rank, and it is
etiquette for him to carry the candle away with him at the conclusion of
his visit, especially if at night. It was a severe test of the courteous
decorum of the Malay nobles when on one occasion, a young officer, who
accompanied me, not only spilt his cup of coffee over his bright new
uniform, but, when impressively bidding adieu to H. H. the Sultan, stood
for sometime unconsciously astride over my lighted candle. Not a muscle
of the faces of the nobles moved, but the Europeans were scarcely so
successful in maintaining their gravity.

