Mr. DALRYMPLE'S description of Brunai, furnished to the _Field_ in
August, 1884, is as follows:--

"On a broad river, sweeping round in an imposing curve from the
South-Eastward, with abrupt ranges of sandstone hills, for the
most part cleared of forest, hemming it in on either side, and a
glimpse of lofty blue mountains towering skywards far away to
the North-East, is a long straggling collection of _atap_
(thatch made of leaves of _nibong_ palm) and _kajang_ (mats of
ditto) houses, or rather huts, built on piles over the water,
and forming a gigantic crescent on either bank of the broad,
curving stream. This is the city of Brunai, the capital of the
Yang di Pertuan, the Sultan of Brunai, _ætat_ one hundred or
more, and now in his dotage: the abode of some 15,000 Malays,
whose language is as different from the Singapore Malay as
Cornish is from Cockney English, and the coign of vantage from
which a set of effete and corrupt _Pangerans_ extended
oppressive rule over the coasts of North-West Borneo, from
Sampanmangiu Point to the Sarawak River in days gone by, ere
British enterprise stepped in, swept the Sulu and Illanun
pirates from the sea, and opened the rivers to commercial
enterprise.

"Standing on the summit of one of the above-mentioned hills, a
fine bird's eye view is obtained of the city below. The
ramshackle houses are all built in irregular blocks or clusters,
but present on either side a regular frontage to the broad
river, and following its sweeping curve, form two imposing
crescent, divided by a fine water-way. Behind these main
crescents are various other blocks and clusters of buildings,
built higgledy piggledy and without plan of any sort. On the
true left bank are some Chinese shops built of brick, and on the
opposite bank a brick house of superior pretensions and a waving
banner proclaiming the abode of the Chinese Consular Agent of
the British North Borneo Company. * * *

"A heterogeneous collection of buildings on the right side of the
upper part of the city forms the _palace_ (save the mark!) of
the Sultan himself. A little further down a large, straggling,
but substantial plank building, with a corrugated iron roof,
marks the abode of the Pangeran Temenggong, a son of the former
Sultan and the heir apparent to the throne of Brunai. Two steam
launches are lying opposite at anchor, one the property of the
Sultan, the other belonging to the heir apparent. * * *

