"The public reception room of the Sultan's palace is a long
apartment with wooden pillars running along either side, and
supporting a raised roof. Beyond these on either side, are
lateral compartments. At the far end, in the centre of a kind of
alcove, is the Sultan's throne. The floors are covered with
matting. * * *

"Although the glories of Brunai have departed, and it is only the
shadow of what it was when PIGAFETTA visited it, a certain
amount of state is still kept up on occasions. A boat comes
sweeping down the river crowded with Malays, a white flag waving
from its stern, seven paddles flashing on either side, and an
array of white umbrellas midships. _It is_ the Pangeran di
Gadong coming in state to pay a ceremonial visit. As it sweeps
alongside, the Pangeran is seen sitting on a gorgeous carpet,
surrounded by his officials. One holds an umbrella over his
head, while another holds aloft the _tongkat kraidan_, a long
guilded staff, surmounted by a plume of yellow horse hair, which
hangs down round it. The most striking point in the attire of
the Pangeran and his Officers is the beauty of the _krises_ with
which they are armed, the handles being of carved ivory
ornamented with gold, and the sheaths of beautifully polished
wood, resembling satin wood. Cigars and coffee are produced, and
a _bichara_ ensues. A Quakers' meeting is no bad metaphor to
describe a Malay _bichara_. The Pangerans sit round in a circle
smoking solemnly for some time, until a question is put to them,
to which a brief reply is given, followed by another prolonged
pause.

"In this way the business on which they have come is gradually
approached.

"Their manners are as polished as their faces are immobile, and
the way to a Malay's heart lies through his pocket.

"To the outsider, Brunai is a city of hideous old women, for such
alone are met with in the thronged market place where some
hundreds of market boats jostle each other, while their inmates
shriek and haggle over their bargains, or during a water
promenade while threading the labyrinths of this Oriental
Venice; but if acquainted with its intricacies, or if paying a
ceremonial visit to any of the leading Pangerans, many a glimpse
may be had of some fair skinned beauty peeping through some
handy crevice in the _kajang_ wall, or, in the latter case, a
crowd of light-skinned, dark-eyed houris may be seen looking
with all their might out of a window in the harem behind, from
which they are privileged to peep into the hall of audience.

