"The present population of Brunai cannot exceed 12,000 to 15,000
souls, a great number having succumbed to the terrible epidemic
of cholera a year ago. The exports consist of sago, gutta
percha, camphor, india-rubber, edible birds' nests, gum dammar,
etc., and what money there is in the city is almost entirely in
the hands of the Chinese traders. * * *

"In the old days, when it enjoyed a numerous Chinese population,
the surrounding hills were covered with pepper plantations, and
there was a large junk trade with China. At present Brunai lives
on her exports of jungle produce and sago, furnished by a noble
river--the Limbang, whose valley lies but a short distance to
the Eastward. One great advantage the city enjoys is a copious
supply of pure water, drawn from springs at the base of the
hills below the town on the left bank of the river. * * *

"Such is a slight sketch of Brunai of the Brunais. If the
Pangerans are corrupt, the lower classes are not, but are law
abiding, though not industrious. And the day may yet come when
their city may lift her head up again, and be to North Borneo
what Singapore is to the straits of Malacca."

This description gives a capital idea of modern Brunai, and I would only
observe that, from the colour of his flag and umbrellas the nobleman who
paid the state visit must have been the Bandahara and not the Di Gadong.

The aged Sultan to whom Mr. DALRYMPLE refers was the late Sultan MUMIM,
who, though not in the direct line, was raised to the throne, on the
death of the Sultan OMAR ALI SAIFUDIN, to whom he had been Prime
Minister, by the influence of the English, towards whom he had always
acted as a loyal friend. He was popularly supposed to be over a hundred
years old when he died and, though said to have had some fifty wives and
concubines, he was childless. He died on the 29th May, 1885, having
previously, on the advice of Sir C. C. LEES, then British
Consul-General, declared his Temenggong, the son of OMAR ALI SAIFUDIN to
be his successor. The Temenggong accended the throne, without any
opposition, with the title of Sultan, but found a kingdom distracted by
rebellion in the provinces and reduced to less than a fourth of its size
when the treaty was made with Great Britain in 1847.

