It would appear that Brunai was once or twice attacked by the Spaniards,
the last occasion being in 1645.[9] It has also had the honour in more
recent times, of receiving the attentions of a British naval expedition,
which was brought about in this wise. Sir JAMES, then Mr. BROOKE, had
first visited Sarawak in 1839 and found the district in rebellion
against its ruler, a Brunai R치ja named MUDA HASSIM, who, being a friend
to the English, received Mr. BROOKE with cordiality. Mr. BROOKE returned
to Sarawak in the following year and this time assisted MUDA HASSIM to
put down the rebellion and finally, on the 24th September, 1841, the
Malay R치ja retired from his position as Governor in favour of the
Englishman.

The agreement to so transfer the Government was not signed without the
application of a little pressure, for we find the following account of
it in Mr. BROOKE'S Journal, edited by Captain RODNEY MUNDY, R. N., in
two volumes, and published by JOHN MURRAY in 1848:--

"October 1st, 1841. Events of great importance have occurred
during the last month. I will shortly narrate them. The advent
of the _Royalist_ and _Swift_ and a second visit from the
_Diana_ on her return from Brunei with the shipwrecked crew of
the _Sultana_, strengthened my position, as it gave evidence
that the Singapore authorities were on the alert, and otherwise
did good to my cause by creating an impression amongst the
natives of my power and influence with the Governor of the
Straits Settlements. Now, then, was my time for pushing measures
to extremity against my subtle enemy the arch-intriguer MAKOTA."
This Chief was a Malay hostile to English interest. "I had
previously made several strong remonstrances, and urged for an
answer to a letter I had addressed to MUDA HASSIM, in which I
had recapitulated in detail the whole particulars of our
agreement, concluding by a positive demand either to allow me to
retrace my steps by repayment of the sums which he had induced
me to expend, or to confer upon me the grant of the Government
of the country according to his repeated promises; and I ended
by stating that if he would not do either one or the other I
_must find means to right myself_. Thus did I, for the first
time since my arrival in the land, present anything in the shape
of a menace before the R치ja, my former remonstrances only going
so far as to threaten to take away my own person and vessels
from the river." Mr. BROOKE'S demand for an investigation into
MAKOTA'S conduct was politely shelved and Mr. BROOKE deemed "the
moment for action had now arrived. My conscience told me that I
was bound no longer to submit to such injustice, and I was
resolved to test the strength of our respective parties.
Repairing on board the yacht, I mustered my people, explained
my intentions and mode of operation, and having loaded the
vessel's guns with grape and canister, and brought her broadside
to bear, I proceeded on shore with a detachment fully armed, and
taking up a position at the entrance of the R치ja's palace,
demanded and obtained an immediate audience. In a few words I
pointed out the villany of MAKOTA, his tyranny and oppression of
all classes, and my determination to attack him by force, and
drive him from the country. I explained to the Raja that several
Chiefs and a large body of Siniawan Dyaks were ready to assist
me, and the only course left to prevent bloodshed was
immediately to proclaim me Governor of the country. This
unmistakeable demonstration had the desired effect * * * None
joined the party of MAKOTA, and his paid followers were not more
than twenty in number.

