"Under the guns of the _Royalist_, and with a small body of men
to protect me personally, and the great majority of all classes
with me, it is not surprising that the negotiation proceeded
rapidly to a favourable issue. The document was quickly drawn
up, sealed, signed, and delivered; and on the 24th of September,
1841, I was declared Rája and Governor of Sarawak amidst the
roar of cannon, and a general display of flags and banners from
the shore and boats on the river."

This is a somewhat lengthy quotation, but the language is so graphic and
so honest that I need make no apologies for introducing it and, indeed,
it is the fairest way of exhibiting Mr. BROOKE'S objects and reasons and
is, moreover, interesting as shewing under what circumstances and
conditions the first permanent English settlement was formed in Borneo.

Mr. BROOKE concludes his account of his accession to the Government in
words that remind us of another unselfish and modest hero--General
GORDON. He says:--

"Difficulty followed upon difficulty; the dread of pecuniary
failure, the doubt of receiving support or assistance; this and
much more presents itself to my mind. But I have tied myself to
the stake. I have heaped faggots around me. I stand upon a cask
of gunpowder, and if others bring the torch I shall not shrink,
I feel within me the firm, unchangeable conviction of doing
right which nothing can shake. I see the benefits I am
conferring. The oppressed, the wretched, the outlawed have found
in me their only protector. They now hope and trust; and they
shall not be disappointed while I have life to uphold them. God
has so far used me as a humble instrument of his hidden
Providence; and whatever be the result, whatever my fate, I know
the example will not be thrown away. I know it tends to a good
end in His own time. He can open a path for me through all
difficulties, raise me up friends who will share with me in the
task, awaken the energies of the great and powerful, so that
they may protect this unhappy people. I trust it may be so: but
if God wills otherwise; if the time be not yet arrived; if it be
the Almighty's will that the flickering taper shall be
extinguished ere it be replaced by a steady beacon, I submit, in
the firm and humble assurance that His ways are better than my
ways, and that the term of my life is better in His hands than
in my own."

