Inconsistencies in the hypenation of words preserved. ( blood-thirsty,
bloodthirsty; head-quarters, headquarters; kina-balu, kinabalu;
kina-batangan, kinabatangan; salt-water, saltwater; sand-stone,
sandstone; sea-board, seaboard; shop-keepers, shopkeepers; war-like,
warlike)

Treatment of Blockquotes. There are several blocks of text where the
author quoted extensively from other documentary sources. In some
cases, very long paragraphs contain a mixture of the author's words and
quoted material. In order to enhance readability, the portions of text
which are quoted material have been separated out and indented as
blockquotes. This treatment has been given to:

Pg. 33-37. The block of text beginning '"When," says he....' to
'maintaining their gravity.' which was originally a single
contiguous paragraph.

Pg. 37-40, several paragraphs beginning 'Mr. Darymple's
description....' to 'Singapore is to the straits of Malacca.' The
first paragraph from 'Mr. Darymple's description....' to
'commercial enterprise' was originally a single contiguous
paragraph. This block of text is also unusual in that while
elsewhere, each new paragraph of quoted material began with a
doublequote mark, in this block, only some paragraphs do so while
others do not. This inconsistency on the part of the author has
been preserved.

Pg. 54-55, several paragraphs beginning 'Javanese element, and
Hindu work....' to 'make a stone fort."' The section from
'Javanese element, and Hindu work....' to 'country of
Saguntang.' was originally one contiguous paragraph. The quoted
material was originally printed with a doublequote mark at the
beginning of each line. These doublequote marks have been
removed except for those indicating the beginning and end of a
quotation.

Pg. 58-62, several paragraphs beginning 'The agreement to so
transfer....' to 'reference will be made hereafter.' The
section from 'The agreement to so transfer....' to 'twenty in
number' was originally one contiguous paragraph. The block from
'Mr. Brooke concludes....' to 'reference will be made
hereafter.' was also one contiguous paragraph. The quoted
material was originally printed with a doublequote mark at the
beginning of each line. These doublequote marks have been
removed except for those indicating the beginning and end of a
quotation.

