Contemporaneously with the Maias and the monkeys many other animals came
into being, among them the dog. For a long time all living things were
friendly to one another and lived in the land of Kaburau, which lies
near a branch of the great Kapuas river, and is, even to this day,
considered by the Dayaks as the garden-spot of the world. The dog,
however, because he cleaned himself with his tongue, soon came to be
despised by all other animals, and although a bully he was yet
subservient to man. Then the deer and many of the other animals taunted
the dog, saying that he was so mean-spirited and servile that although
man thrashed him, nevertheless he fawned upon him and followed after
him; which they would never do, so they went off to the jungle to live.
But the dog comforted himself by saying that "When the man is about to
strike me I crouch down and sometimes this keeps his hand off;
furthermore, I cannot live on the poor food that these others must eat."
Hence, the dog follows and obeys man.

One day when the man and the dog were in the jungle together, and got
drenched by rain, the man noticed that the dog warmed himself by rubbing
against a huge creeper, called the _Aka Rarah_, whereupon the man took a
stick and rubbed it rapidly against the Aka Rarah, and to his surprise
obtained fire. This was the origin of the _Sukan_, or fire drill, and
ever after the man had fire in his house. Not long after, in
accidentally dropping an Ubi near the fire, he found that it became much
more pleasant to the taste; by this accident cooking was discovered.

[Illustration: MAKING FIRE WITH A FIRE-DRILL.]

In the course of time, the dog and other animals began to multiply, and
man imitated their example; the woman brought forth a male child, whose
name was _Machan Buntu_. After many years, the woman gave birth to a
female child who, when she was well grown, married her brother Machan
Buntu and gave birth to seventy children at one time. These children
left their home and scattered all over the world. Some became wood
sprites and mountain gnomes, living in the trees, in the rivers, and
under ground.

