TAN TEKKAN, a third division, is the place to which Laki Tenangan
consigns suicides; wretched and woe begone in appearance, their souls
wander about in the jungle and in the clearings trying to pick up a
living by eating what roots and fruits they can find. This joyless
Hereafter is calculated to make those who contemplate suicide, rather
perform some self-sacrificing act of bravery whereby they will not only
benefit those whom they leave behind, but also gain for themselves a
more pleasant position in the world to come; therefore suicide is not at
all common.

TENYU LALU, a fourth region, is assigned to the spirits of still-born
children. These little souls are said to be exceedingly brave and need
no other weapon wherewith to defend themselves than a stick of wood;
they have never felt pain nor experienced danger in this world, and are
therefore totally ignorant of such emotions. Whether or not they
increase in size in _Tenyu Lalu_ is not known, but it is generally
supposed that they live together in a little world of their own.

Finally, LING YANG is the abode of those who have died by drowning; it
lies below the beds of rivers, and here the spirits soon become
exceedingly rich. All the goods lost in rivers by the capsizing of boats
in the rapids, or when they run foul of a snag in deep water, go into
the coffers of the dwellers in _Ling Yang_.

Such are the main divisions of the _Dali Matei_, or country of the
dead; there are, however, many sacred hills, rivers, and lakes wherein
dwell certain powerful demons who govern the spirits. In this nether
world, some say that there are trees and plants and animals much the
same as in this; this point, however, seemed open to considerable doubt
in the minds of some whom I questioned, while others had so definite an
idea of it that they drew maps to show the positions of the different
regions. They seemed to regard it as a large river, along whose
tributaries dwelt the various classes of departed spirits. The Dayongs,
or medicine men, are the only ones who are supposed really to know;
these all maintain that, while acquiring their power over sickness, they
had visited the land of spirits. In the mythology of all countries there
is sure to be a hero who has made the descent to Hades and returned to
tell the tale, and the Kayans are no exceptions; they have their
Orpheus, only his name is Gamong.

