Gamong, during an attack of fever, realized that he was at the point of
death, but was loath to resign his spirit, so he called his friends
around him and begged them to dress him up, after death, in all his
war-clothes, and not to bury him for three days, but to place him in a
sitting posture with his sword and spear in his hands. He comforted them
by saying that he had an inner assurance that he had a terrible
encounter before him, but that he would actually return to this world in
about three days. Shortly after this, his breath ceased and his friends
performed all the rites of burial, just as he had requested. For three
days his body remained rigid; at the end of that time, he came back to
life and told his open-eyed friends his adventures as follows: "When my
spirit left you, I went directly down the path which leads to the great
tree-trunk, _Bintang Sikopa_, where Maligang stands; according to his
wont, he hailed me and told me to halt, which I would not do. Then
Maligang, whose arm is enormous, many times bigger than his body, began
to shake the tree, calling out 'who are you?' I replied 'I am Gamong, a
brave warrior, and you must not shake the tree while I cross.' Maligang
then said, consulting the pegs with which he records the deeds of men,
'What proof have I that you have been brave?' At this I was furious, I
drew my parang, uplifted my spear and ran amok, rushing into Maligang's
house, smashing everything and overturning the great jars of rice-toddy,
of which there is an abundance, but whereof no one ever drinks. Maligang
was frightened and bolted from the house, shouting as he fled, 'I have
not got you now, but in seven years' time you must return.' Finding that
Maligang had fled, and that there were other obstacles to prevent me
from going on, I returned to this world and its trials." The story goes
that Gamong lived seven years after this, and then succumbed body and
soul to the great Maligang; and as there is no record of his bravery, he
was probably shaken off of the tree-trunk and disappeared in the deep
pit seething with maggots.

