All this veracious history I got by word of mouth from a Kayan of the
Tinjar valley.

Almost every medicine man has been down among the spirits of the dead,
and in proof of his assertions, a curiously shaped stone, or a knot of
wood, is displayed, which has been given by the spirits and is endowed
with all sorts of marvellous properties. I have in my possession a
Dayong's whole outfit of charms which I bought from his relatives after
his death; they were afraid to touch it, and for another Dayong to use
it is taboo of the worst kind. Such charms are usually buried with the
practitioner, but this old fellow evidently did not have a very large
practice, and, at his death, he was somewhat neglected. One of the
charms is a stone in which an active imagination might trace a
resemblance to the hand or foot of an animal; the sorrowing relatives
told me, with awe and bated breath, that it was given to their uncle by
a spirit on the top of a mountain, and that it was the foot of a dragon,
one of the most powerful resources of the Dayong pharmacopoeia.

[Illustration: KAYAN WOMEN.]

Companions to the stories of visits to the regions below the earth are
stories of visits to the world above the skies, to which adventurous
heroes climb either by vines or ropes, which dangle suddenly in front of
them, or by means of lofty trees. "Jack and the Bean Stalk" is a
parallel story in our own folklore. Sir Spencer St. John[1] gives a
Dayak account of the introduction of rice among the Orang Iban, as they
call themselves, which states that "when mankind had nothing to eat but
fruit and a species of fungus which grows round the roots of trees, a
party of Ibans, among whom was a man named _Si Jura_ (whose descendants
live to this day in the village of Simpok) went forth to sea. They
sailed on for a long time until they came to a place where they heard
the distant roar of a large whirlpool, and, to their amazement, saw
before them a huge fruit tree rooted in the sky and thence hanging down,
with its branches touching the waves. At the request of his companions,
Si Jura climbed among its boughs to collect the fruit, which was in
abundance; when he got among the boughs, he was tempted to ascend the
trunk and find how the tree grew in that position. On looking down he
saw his companions making off with the boat loaded with fruit; there
was nothing for him to do but go on climbing. At length he reached the
roots of the tree and found himself in the country of the Pleiades
[which the Dayaks call 'the seven chained-stars']; when he stood upon
the ground he met a man-like being, whose name was Si Kira, and he went
with him to his house. For food Si Kira offered to him a mess of soft
white grains, and told him to eat. 'What, eat those little maggots?'
said Si Jura. 'They are not maggots, that is boiled rice,' replied Si
Kira, and he forthwith instructed him in the art of planting, weeding,
reaping, husking, and boiling rice.

