"While Si Kira's wife was out, getting some water, Si Jura peeped into
one of the tall jars that were standing near by, and looking straight
through the bottom of it, he could see his father's house and all his
brothers and sisters sitting around talking. His spirits were much
depressed at the remembrance of the home that perhaps he should never
see again, and instead of eating he wept. Si Kira at once saw what was
the matter, and assured him that he would arrange everything
satisfactorily for him; then Si Jura fell to and ate a hearty meal, and
afterwards he was given three kinds of rice, and Si Kira further
instructed him how to fell the jungle, burn it, then take the omens from
the birds before planting, and when he harvested to hold a feast. By
means of a long rope Si Jura was lowered down to the earth again, close
to his father's house. From his visit to the Pleiades the Dayaks learned
all that they know about farming, and, what is more, to this day the
Pleiades themselves tell them when to begin farming, for, according to
their position in the sky in the morning and evening, they cut down the
jungle, burn, plant, and reap."

I think there can be no doubt that Si Kira bestowed a great blessing on
the Dayaks when he gave them rice; but I am very sure that he saddled
them with a dire affliction when he introduced to them the omen-birds;
more procrastination, failure of expeditions, and exasperation of soul
can be laid to the score of these birds than to anything else on earth.
There is hardly an undertaking, however slight, that can be begun
without first consulting these wretched birds. Yet it is hardly to be
wondered at, that all tribes should hold the birds to be little prophets
of the jungle, dashing across man's path, at critical moments, to bless
or to ban. In the deep jungle, which at high noon is as silent as
"sunless retreats of the ocean," gay-plumaged birds are not sitting on
every bough singing plaintive, melodious notes; such lovely pictures
exist solely in the mind of the poet or of him who has never visited the
tropics. In the thick tangle of leaves and branches overhead, the larger
birds are seen with difficulty, even after considerable practice, and
the smaller birds appear as but a flash of light, as they dart through
the interlacing palms and vines; the apparition, with its sudden gleam
and instant disappearance, starts the impulse to make a wish, as when we
see a star shoot across the heavens. This same natural and almost
irresistible impulse, which we have all experienced, I suggest as one of
the explanations of the tendency of the Bornean mind to accept the birds
as the intelligent forerunners of good or ill. These unsophisticated
natives wander forth with some wish in their hearts, and should a bird
of the right species (for not all birds are omen-birds) cross their
path, the fulfilment of their wishes is established beyond a doubt by
its mere appearance, and it is to be feared (for they are mortal) that
if they do not want to see the bird--well, there are none so blind as
those who won't see. When it comes to taking omens for such an important
event as the planting of rice, or for going on the warpath, then the
ceremony extends over ten days or two weeks, and the opinion of the
small barking deer also must be consulted; furthermore, the whole
household is under the ban of a taboo, or _permantang_, as they call it,
and the people must all stay indoors while the three men who are
appointed as searchers are abroad on their omen-seeking errand. So firm
is their trust in the wisdom of the birds that even if they have worked
for months at a clearing they will abandon it and never plant it, if the
omens at the time of sowing be unfavorable. Certain birds must be seen
on the right hand to be favorable, while others are most propitious when
they soar overhead, or give a shrill cry on the left; on more than one
occasion, when traveling in native canoes, a bird which ought to have
appeared on the right has been seen on the left, and, to my utter
bewilderment, without a word the boat has been swung round in the stream
so as to bring to the right what was on the left, thus slyly fabricating
a bad omen into a good one, and for some distance we have gone in the
opposite direction, but now with highly favorable omens. When they
conclude that the bird has forgotten his warning or lost sight of us,
the boat has been again turned, fate has been deceived, and we journey
on as before. Once our whole party of eight or ten boats had to pull up
at the bank and walk through the jungle for a quarter of a mile or so to
make a bothersome white-headed hawk think that he had mistaken the
object of our expedition. When a favorable bird has been seen, a fire of
chips is at once built on the bank of the river, thereby letting the
bird know that his kind attention has been appreciated, Fire is always
the go-between of man and the birds, or any of the spirits; it forms an
important part in the ceremonies of consecration and absolution, and by
means of fire a man may break through a taboo, or _permantang_. Should
a man have a fruit-tree, for instance, which he wishes to protect, he
places about it several cleft sticks with stones thrust in the clefts,
and the stones are told to guard the tree and afflict with dire diseases
any pilferer of the fruit. Now, should a friend of the owner see this
sign of _permantang_ and yet wish some of the fruit, let him but build a
fire and commission the fire to tell the stones that he is a friend of
the owner, and that it is all right if he takes the fruit; then, when
the fire is burnt out, the fruit may be taken with impunity. In the
ceremony of naming a child, the sacrificial pig is touched with a fire
brand before it is harangued by the Dayong, or medicine man; and to
determine whether or not the chosen name be propitious, the strip of
rattan which has been used on the fire-saw to obtain the sacred fire, is
bent into a loop until its ends just meet; it is then set on fire in the
middle and allowed to burn through. If the two pieces thus made are of
uneven length the name is good; if they are both the same length another
name must be selected. The ashes from this burning are made into a paste
and smeared on the child's forehead just before it is deluged with a
bowl of cold water, and the name is made public for the first time. It
is strange what a similarity exists in different races relative to this
ceremony of giving a name. Why water should be used to confirm the rite,
they cannot themselves explain, except by saying that it is a custom
handed down to them from their grandfathers and their
great-great-grandfathers. It can hardly have suggested itself to the
minds of the Borneans as an element of purification and cleansing; to
their mind water does not possess these properties. Water is good to
drink when you are thirsty, and refreshing to bathe in when you are
hot, that is all; dirt has no horrors to the Bornean mind, and after a
plunge in the river has refreshed the body, the Kayan, Dayak, Kenyah,
Sibop, or whatever the tribe, will put on the same dirty waist-cloth or
cotton jacket that has never known soap, and has seldom if ever been
nearer the water than when on the back of its owner. Perhaps it is that
water is symbolic of life and motion; the river is always moving, it
murmurs and talks to itself, a draft of its coolness and a plunge into
its embrace adds new life to man; why should it not be the giver of
life? In almost all the native languages of Borneo the word for water
and river is the same; even when water is brought up into the house it
is still the river, and when they drink, they drink the river; when they
boil their rice they boil in the river, and when they name their
children they pour the river over them. Many subtribes or households
take their name from the river on which they live, as, for instance, the
Long Patas who live, or used to live, at the mouth of the Pata river
(Long meaning junction of one river with another), the Long Kiputs, the
Long Lamas, and many others that might be named, including the whole
tribe of the Kayans, who take their name from the great Kayan river
which empties into the sea on the East coast. If a river that is new to
them be visited, the spirits of that stream must be always propitiated
lest they resent the intrusion and drown the visitor. It is the custom
among the Bukits, one of the most primitive tribes, for the youths, when
they reach the bank of a new river, to divest themselves of every
article of clothing, save a chaplet of leaves, which they twist from the
vines near at hand; then crouching at the edge of the water, they toss
some personal ornament, such as a brass ear-ring or a bright bead, far
out into mid-stream, and at the same instant scoop up a handful of the
water; gazing earnestly into the few drops which they hold in their
palm, they invoke the spirits of the river to protect them, and implore
permission to enter the new territory. Not until this rite is completed
would they dare to bathe in the stream.

