[Illustration: A SCENE ON THE DAPOI RIVER.]

To revert to the subject of names; from all that I have read, and from
personal observation, it seems that all Borneans recognize the sanctity
of names; of this we may find traces among all the primitive people of
the earth. Before the formal ceremony of naming a child, for instance,
has been performed, the child has no recognized place in the community,
and a mother in enumerating her children would never think of mentioning
one that had died before it was named, even though it had lived a year.
Before the ceremony, the intended name is known to no one except the
parents, and, for them to mention it, is strictly _permantang_ until the
river water has been poured on the child's head. A Kayan will never tell
you his name, but when asked he invariably turns to some one sitting
near him and asks him to pronounce the name which to the owner is
ineffable. For a man to mention the name of his dead father or mother is
a reckless flying in the face of providence. After a serious illness the
name should be changed and never uttered again, lest the evil spirits
revisit their victim; under a new name they will be likely to pass him
by. On one occasion, recognizing a man that I had seen on a former
visit, but, at the moment forgetting his name, I enquired what it was;
the name, however, struck me as entirely unfamiliar. He afterward
acknowledged that he had been very sick since I last saw him and now
bore a new name; only the assurance that the spirits could not harm him
through a white man induced him at last to whisper to me his former
name. This change of name to deceive the fates extends even to inanimate
objects, and to animals which are to be caught or trapped. When hunting
for camphor, the name of the object of their search must be never
mentioned; it is always spoken of as "the thing that smells." Even all
the instruments, which they use in collecting the valuable drug, have
fanciful names, while the searchers talk in a language invented solely
for those who collect camphor. Unless they conform to all these
requirements, the camphor crystals, which in this particular variety are
found only in the crevices of the wood, will elude them and their search
be fruitless. When the people go _Tuba fishing_, which consists of
poisoning the stream with the juice of the Tuba root, and thus
stupefying the fish and making them rise to the surface, where they can
be easily caught in nets or speared, they never say that they are going
after fish, but after the leaves which float down stream.

