These and many other customs relative to the naming of things are all
founded on the same idea of the potency and mysticism inherent in a
name, which may be found in the legends of the old Egyptians, wherein
the power of the great king and god _Ra_ depended on the fact that no
one knew his real name, until Isis by stratagem got it from him; and
forthwith his power left him. It was this same idea that prevented the
Hebrew from ever speaking the name of the Most High; it is probably the
same thought which prompts the Japanese to change a person's name after
death lest by mentioning the one known during life the spirit of the
dead should be recalled from the other world.

The downfall of the god _Ra_ brings to mind another superstition of
which I have noticed a remnant among the Borneans also, the power of
working charms with the saliva. When the great god Ra became so old that
he no longer had control of his lower jaw, Isis collected some of his
saliva which dropped upon the ground below his throne, and mixing it
with clay, made a snake of it. (I quote from the "Turin Papyrus," of
which Mr. EDWARD CLODD gives a translation in his recent and valuable
little book called "Tom Tit Tot.") This snake Isis left in Ra's path; as
he passed by, it bit him, and to relieve him of his agony Isis persuaded
him that the only thing to be done was to tell her his true name that
she might drive out the pain from his bones. This he finally did, and
with disastrous results. I instance this to show the antiquity of the
superstition that the saliva is potent as an ingredient of charms; the
Kayans illustrate this, in the manner whereby they elude an evil spirit
which may have been following them on a journey on the river. They build
a small archway of boughs on the bank just before they arrive at their
destination. Underneath this arch, they build a fire and, in single
file, all pass under, stepping over the fire and spitting into it as
they pass; by this act they thoroughly exorcise the evil spirits and
emerge on the other side free from all baleful influence. Another
instance, is where they are throwing aside the signs of mourning for the
dead; during the period of mourning they may not cut their hair nor
shave their temples, but as soon as the mourning is ended by the
ceremony of bringing home a newly-taken head, the barber's knife is kept
busy enough. As every man leaves the barber's hands, he gathers up the
hair, and, spitting on it, murmurs a prayer to the evil spirits not to
harm him. He then blows the hair out of the verandah of the house.

