And now I come to a terrible day--8th of August, 1901. At 6:30
A.M. in presence of the Scientific Commission of the Aero Club, I
started again for the Eiffel Tower.

I turned the tower at the end of nine minutes and took my way
back to St. Cloud; but my balloon was losing hydrogen through one
of its two automatic gas valves whose spring had been
accidentally weakened.

I had perceived the beginning of this loss of gas even before
reaching the Eiffel Tower, and ordinarily, in such an event, I
should have come at once to earth to examine the lesion. But here
I was competing for a prize of great honour and my speed had been
good. Therefore I risked going on.

The balloon now shrunk visibly. By the time I had got back to the
fortifications of Paris, near La Muette, it caused the suspension
wires to sag so much that those nearest to the screw-propeller
caught in it as it revolved.

I saw the propeller cutting and tearing at the wires. I stopped
the motor instantly. Then, as a consequence, the airship was at
once driven back toward the tower by the wind which was strong.

[Illustration: Photo by International Film Service Co.

_A Kite Balloon Rising from the Hold of a Ship._]

At the same time I was falling. The balloon had lost much gas. I
might have thrown out ballast and greatly diminished the fall,
but then the wind would have time to blow me back on the Eiffel
Tower. I therefore preferred to let the airship go down as it was
going. It may have seemed a terrific fall to those who watched it
from the ground but to me the worst detail was the airship's lack
of equilibrium. The half-empty balloon, fluttering its empty end
as an elephant waves his trunk, caused the airship's stern to
point upward at an alarming angle. What I most feared therefore
was that the unequal strain on the suspension wires would break
them one by one and so precipitate me to the ground.

Why was the balloon fluttering an empty end causing all this
extra danger? How was it that the rotary ventilator was not
fulfilling its purpose in feeding the interior air balloon and in
this manner swelling out the gas balloon around it? The answer
must be looked for in the nature of the accident. The rotary
ventilator stopped working when the motor itself stopped, and I
had been obliged to stop the motor to prevent the propeller from
tearing the suspension wires near it when the balloon first began
to sag from loss of gas. It is true that the ventilator which was
working at that moment had not proved sufficient to prevent the
first sagging. It may have been that the interior balloon refused
to fill out properly. The day after the accident when my balloon
constructor's man came to me for the plans of a "No. 6" balloon
envelope I gathered from something he said that the interior
balloon of "No. 5," not having been given time for its varnish to
dry before being adjusted, might have stuck together or stuck to
the sides or bottom of the outer balloon. Such are the rewards of
haste.

