I was falling. At the same time the wind was carrying me toward
the Eiffel Tower. It had already carried me so far that I was
expecting to land on the Seine embankment beyond the Trocadero.
My basket and the whole of the keel had already passed the
Trocadero hotels, and had my balloon been a spherical one it
would have cleared the building. But now at the last critical
moment, the end of the long balloon that was still full of gas
came slapping down on the roof just before clearing it. It
exploded with a great noise; struck after being blown up. This
was the terrific explosion described in the newspaper of the day.

I had made a mistake in my estimate of the wind's force, by a few
yards. Instead of being carried on to fall on the Seine
embankment, I now found myself hanging in my wicker basket high
up in the courtyard of the Trocadero hotels, supported by my
airship's keel, that stood braced at an angle of about forty-five
degrees between the courtyard wall above and the roof of a lower
construction farther down. The keel, in spite of my weight, that
of the motor and machinery, and the shock it had received in
falling, resisted wonderfully. The thin pine scantlings and piano
wires of Nice (the town where the idea of a keel first suggested
itself) had saved my life!

After what seemed tedious waiting, I saw a rope being lowered to
me from the roof above. I held to it and was hauled up, when I
perceived my rescuers to be the brave firemen of Paris. From
their station at Passy they had been watching the flight of the
airship. They had seen my fall and immediately hastened to the
spot. Then, having rescued me, they proceeded to rescue the
airship.

The operation was painful. The remains of the balloon envelope
and the suspension wires hung lamentably; and it was impossible
to disengage them except in strips and fragments!

The later balloon "No. VI." with which Santos-Dumont won the Deutsch
prize may fairly be taken as his conception of the finished type of
dirigible for one man. In fact his aspirations never soared as high
as those of Count Zeppelin, and the largest airship he ever
planned--called "the _Omnibus_"--carried only four men. It is
probable that the diversion of his interest from dirigibles to
airplanes had most to do with his failure to carry his development
further than he did. "No. VI." was 108 feet long, and 20 feet in
diameter with an eighteen-horse-power gasoline engine which could
drive it at about nineteen miles an hour. Naturally the aeronaut's
first thought in his new construction was of the valves. The memory
of the anxious minutes spent perched on the window-sill of the
Trocadero Hotel or dangling like a spider at the end of the
firemen's rope were still fresh. The ballonet which had failed him
in "No. V." was perfected in its successor. Notwithstanding the care
with which she was constructed the prize-winner turned out to be a
rather unlucky ship. On her trial voyage she ran into a tree and was
damaged, and even on the day of her greatest conquest she behaved
badly. The test was made on October 1, 1901. The aeronaut had
rounded the Tower finely and was making for home when the motor
began to miss and threatened to stop altogether. While Santos-Dumont
was tinkering with the engine, leaving the steering wheel to itself,
the balloon drifted over the Bois de Boulogne. As usual the cool air
from the wood caused the hydrogen in the balloon to contract and the
craft dropped until it appeared the voyage would end in the tree
tops. Hastily shifting his weights the aeronaut forced the prow of
the ship upwards to a sharp angle with the earth. Just at this
moment the reluctant engine started up again with such vigour that
for a moment the ship threatened to assume a perpendicular position,
pointing straight up in the sky. A cry went up from the spectators
below who feared a dire catastrophe was about to end a voyage which
promised success. But with incomparable _sang-froid_ the young
Brazilian manipulated the weights, restored the ship to the
horizontal again without stopping the engines, and reached the
finishing stake in time to win the prize. Soon after it was awarded
him the Brazilian Government presented him with another substantial
prize, together with a gold medal bearing the words: _Por ceos nunca
d'antes navegados_ ("Through heavens hitherto unsailed").

