Nerve and rapidity of thought save the aviator in many a ticklish
position. It is perhaps a tribute to the growing perfection of the
airplanes that in certain moments of peril the machine is best left
wholly to itself. Its stability is such that if freed from control
it will often right itself and glide safely to earth. This not
infrequently occurs in the moment of the dreaded _perte de vitesse_,
to which reference has been made. In his book, _With the French
Flying Corps_, Mr. Carroll Dana Winslow, a daring American aviator,
tells of two such experiences, the one under his observation, the
other happening to himself:

The modern airplane is naturally so stable [he says] that if not
interfered with it will always attempt to right itself before the
dreaded _vrille_ occurs, and fall _en feuille morte_. Like a leaf
dropping in an autumn breeze is what this means, and no other
words explain the meaning better.

A curious instance of this happened one day as I was watching the
flights and waiting for my turn. I was particularly interested in
a machine that had just risen from the "Grande Piste." It was
acting very peculiarly. Suddenly its motor was heard to stop.
Instead of diving it commenced to wabble, indicating a _perte de
vitesse_. It slipped off on the wing and then dove. I watched it
intently, expecting it to turn into the dreaded spiral. Instead
it began to climb. Then it went off on the wing, righted itself,
again slipped off on the wing, volplaned, and went off once more.
This extraordinary performance was repeated several times, while
each time the machine approached nearer and nearer to the ground.
I thought that the pilot would surely be killed. Luck was with
him, however, for his slip ceased just as he made contact with
the ground and he settled in a neighbouring field. It was a very
bumpy landing but the airplane was undamaged.

The officers rushed to the spot to find out what was the matter.
They found the pilot unconscious, but otherwise unhurt. Later in
the hospital he explained that the altitude had affected his
heart and that he had fainted. As he felt himself going he
remembered his instructions and relinquished the controls, at the
same time stopping his motor. His presence of mind and his luck
had saved his life--his luck I say, for had the machine not
righted itself at the moment of touching the ground it would have
been inevitably wrecked.

