The spectacle, though terrifying, proved valuable as an education to
young Winslow who a few days later was ordered to a test of
ascension of two thousand feet. This is his story:

I had a narrow escape. I had received orders to make a flight
during a snow-storm. I rose to the prescribed height and then
prepared to make my descent. A whirling squall caught me in the
act of making a spiral. I felt the tail of my machine go down and
the nose point up. I had a classical _perte de vitesse_. I looked
out and saw that I was less than eight hundred feet above the
ground and approaching it at an alarming rate of speed. I had
already shut off the motor for the spiral, and turning it on, I
knew, would not help me in the least. Suddenly I remembered the
pilot who fainted. I let go of everything, and with a sickening
feeling I looked down at the up-rushing ground. At that instant I
felt the machine give a lurch and right itself. I grabbed the
controls, turned on the motor, and resumed my line of flight only
two hundred feet in the air. All this happened in a few seconds,
but my helplessness seemed to have lasted for hours. I had had a
very close call--not as close as the man who fainted, but
sufficiently so for me.

[Illustration: _Distinguishing Marks of American Planes._]

We have said that the process of training a flyer is remarkably
expeditious. So far as the fundamentals of his profession are
concerned it is. But his education in fact never ends. In the mere
matter of reconnaissance, for example, experience is everything. One
might imagine that ten thousand men marching on a road would look
alike in numbers whatever the nationality. Not so. To the untrained
eye five thousand or six thousand French troops will look as
numerous as ten thousand British or Germans. Why? Because the French
march in much more extended order. Into their democratic military
methods the precision and mechanical exactitude of German drill do
not enter. With the same number of troops they will extend further
along the road by at least a third than would a detachment of either
of the other armies.

