Swinging lazily above the field was a captive balloon. At one end
of Le Bourget was a line of waiting airplanes. "This is the
second; they have already brought down one balloon," remarked the
man at my elbow. The hum of a motor caused me to look up. A
wide-winged double motor, Caudron, had left the ground and was
mounting gracefully above us. Up and up it went, describing a
great circle, until it faced the balloon. Everyone caught his
breath. The Caudron was rushing straight at the balloon, diving
for the attack.

"Now!" cried the crowd. There was a loud crack, a flash, and
eight long rockets darted forth leaving behind a fiery trail. The
aviator's aim however was wide, and to the disappointment of
everyone the darts fell harmlessly to the ground.

Another motor roared far down the field, and a tiny _appareil de
chasse_ shot upward like a swallow. "A Nieuport," shouted the
crowd as one voice. Eager to atone for his _copain's_ failure,
and impatient at his delay in getting out of the way, the tiny
biplane tossed and tumbled about in the air like a clown in the
circus ring.

"Look! he's looping! he falls! he slips! no, he rights again!"
cried a hundred voices as the skilful pilot kept our nerves on
edge.

Suddenly he darted into position and for a second hovered
uncertain. Then with a dive like that of a dragon-fly, he rushed
down to the attack. Again a sheet of flame and a shower of
sparks. This time the balloon sagged. The flames crept slowly
around its silken envelope. "_Touchez!_" cried the multitude.
Then the balloon burst and fell to the ground a mass of flames.
High above the little Nieuport saucily continued its pranks, as
though contemptuous of such easy prey.

[Illustration: _Aviators Descending in Parachutes from a Balloon
Struck by Incendiary Shells._ © U. & U.]

It may be properly noted at this point that the captive balloons or
kite balloons have proved of the greatest value for observations in
this war. Lacking of course the mobility of the swiftly moving
airplanes, they have the advantage over the latter of being at all
times in direct communication by telephone with the ground and being
able to carry quite heavy scientific instruments for the more
accurate mapping out of such territory as comes within their sphere
of observation. They are not easy to destroy by artillery fire, for
the continual swaying of the balloon before the wind perplexes
gunners in their aim. At a height of six hundred feet, a normal
observation post, the horizon is nearly thirty miles from the
observer. In flat countries like Flanders, or at sea where the
balloon may be sent up from the deck of a ship, this gives an
outlook of the greatest advantage to the army or fleet relying upon
the balloon for its observations of the enemy's dispositions.

