What the lads engaged in making these records had to brave in the
way of physical danger is strikingly shown by the description of a
combat included in one of the coldly matter-of-fact official
reports. The battle was fought at about twelve thousand feet above
mother earth. We quote the official description accompanied by some
explanatory comments added by one who was an eye-witness and who
conversed with the triumphant young airman on his return to the
safety of the soil.

"While exposing six plates," says the official report of this
youthful recording angel, "I observed five H. A.'s cruising."

"H. A." stands for "hostile aeroplane."

"Not having seen the escort since returning inland, the pilot
prepared to return. The enemy separated, one taking up a position
above the tail and one ahead. The other three glided toward us
on the port side, firing as they came. The two diving machines
fired over 100 rounds, hitting the pilot in the shoulder."

As a matter of fact, the bullet entered his shoulder from above,
behind, breaking his left collarbone, and emerged just above his
heart, tearing a jagged rent down his breast. Both his feet,
furthermore, were pierced by bullets; but the observer is not
concerned with petty detail.

The observer held his fire until H. A., diving on tail, was
within five yards.

Here it might be mentioned that the machines were hurtling
through space at a speed in the region of one hundred miles an
hour.

The pilot of H. A., having swooped to within speaking distance,
pushed up his goggles, and laughed triumphantly as he took sight
for the shot that was to end the fight. But the observer, had his
own idea how the fight should end.

"I then shot one tray into the enemy pilot's face," he says, with
curt relish, "and watched him sideslip and go spinning earthward
in a train of smoke."

He then turned his attention to his own pilot. The British
machine was barely under control, but as the observer rose in his
seat to investigate the foremost gun was fired, and the aggressor
ahead went out of control and dived nose first in helpless
spirals.

