About the beginning of 1916 the British suddenly awoke to the fact
that even in war publicity has its value. It was necessary to arouse
the enthusiastic support of the people for recruiting or for the
conscription which ultimately was ordered. To do this graphic
descriptions of what was doing at the front in the various branches
of the service seemed necessary. The best writers in England were
mobilized for this work. Kipling wrote of the submarines, Conan
Doyle of the fighting on the fields of France. The Royal Flying
Corps gave out a detailed story the authorship of which was not
stated, but which describes most picturesquely the day of a flying
man.

In the United States it appeared in the _Sun_, of New York, and
sections of it are reprinted here:

"The following bombing will be carried out by No.--Squadron at
night (10 P.M., 12 midnight, and 2 A.M.). At each of these times
three machines, each carrying eight twenty-pound bombs, will bomb
respectively P----, C----, H----."

Thus the operation order read one evening in France. Just an
ordinary order too, for bombing is carried out day and night
incessantly. Bombing by night is usually carried out on towns and
villages known to be resting places of the German troops, and it
is part of the work of the Royal Flying Corps to see that the Hun
never rests.

Fritz after a hard spell in the trenches is withdrawn to some
shell torn village behind his lines to rest. He enters the ruined
house, that forms his billet, and with a sigh of contentment at
reaching such luxury after the miseries of trench life prepares
to sleep in peace. He dreams of home, and then out of the night
comes the terror of the air.

A bomb falls in his billet, exploding with a terrific report and
doing more damage to the already ruined walls. Possibly a few of
his comrades are wounded or killed. Other explosions take place
close by and the whole village is in turmoil.

Fritz does not sleep again. His nerves are jangled and all
possibility of sleep is gone. The next day he is in a worse
condition than after a night in the trenches. This continues
night after night. The damage to German morale is enormous.

