Whether the rush of air, the sudden increase of pressure, or the
passing off of the effect of the blow caused the disabled man to
come to his senses is not known, but when the machine was only a
few hundred feet from the ground, Lieutenant C. recovered his
senses sufficiently to realize his position and managed to pull
the machine up and make a landing. He then lapsed into
unconsciousness again. Had he remained in his state of collapse
half a minute longer, he would inevitably have been killed.

Another curious case of wounding was that of Lieutenant H., who
was also returning from a bomb raid. When passing through the
heavily shelled zone his machine was hit by a shell, which passed
through the floor by the pilot's seat and out at the top without
exploding. Lieutenant H. thought it must have been very close to
his leg, but he was so fully occupied with manoeuvring to dodge
other shells that he had no time to think of it.

He crossed the line and began to plane down when he was aware of
a feeling of faintness, but pulling himself together he landed
his machine, taxied up to the sheds, and attempted to get out. It
was only then that he realized that his leg was shot almost
completely off above the knee; the lower part was merely hanging
by a piece of skin.

Incredible as it may seem the shell which hit his machine also
tore through the leg--luckily without exploding--unknown to
Lieutenant H. Probably the force of the blow and excitement of
the moment caused it to pass unnoticed and the torn nature of the
wound helped to close the arteries and prevent his bleeding to
death. He recovered, and though no longer flying is still engaged
in doing his duty for the duration of the war.

[Illustration: _Raid on a Troop Train by John E. Whiting._]

The courage and dash of the American aviators, serving with the
French Army, led the Allies to expect great things of our flying
corps which should be organized immediately after our declaration of
war. About the time of that declaration Major L. W. B. Rees, of the
British Flying Corps, came to the United States for the purpose of
giving to our authorities the benefit of British experience in
raising and equipping aërial fleets and in the development of the
most efficient tactics. Major Rees in an official statement set
forth many facts of general interest concerning the various flying
services of the belligerent armies. The British, he said, fly on
three levels with three different kinds of machines. Nearest the
ground, about six thousand feet up, are the artillery directors who
hover about cutting big figure eights above the enemy trenches and
flash back directions by wireless to the British artillerists. These
observers are, of course, exposed to attack from anti-aircraft guns,
the effective range of which had by the middle of war become as
great as ten thousand feet. Yet, as has already been noted, the
amount of execution done by these weapons was surprisingly small.
The observers are protected from attack from above, first by the
heavy fighting planes, flying at ten thousand feet, carrying two men
to the plane and able to keep the air for four hours at a time at a
speed of 110 miles an hour. They are supposed to use every possible
vigilance to keep the enemy's fighters away from the slower and busy
observing machines. In this they are seconded by the lighter one-man
fighting machines which cruise about at a height of fifteen thousand
feet at a speed of 130 miles an hour and able to make a straight
upward dash at the rate of ten thousand feet in ten minutes. The
aviators of these latter machines came to describe their task as
"ceiling work," suggesting that they operated at the very top of the
world's great room. They are able to keep the air only about two
hours at a time.

