The next question put to the French experts was: "Why do we need
to make a great effort to obtain the superiority in the air?"
They answered with much interesting detail:

"Because the Germans have understood the importance of aviation
from a military point of view and have concentrated all their
forces to develop this service.

"Owing to the large number of scientists and technicians they
possess they are able constantly to perfect motors and planes.
Owing to their great industrial organization they are able to
produce an enormous number of the best machines.

"The German aviation service is now fully as strong as that of
the Allies as far as numbers are concerned. The superiority in
the air can only remain in the hands of the Allies because of the
spirit of self-sacrifice of their aviators and their greater
skill.

"Germany feels that the decisive phase of the war is imminent and
the efforts she will make next year will be infinitely greater
than any she has made before. She will try in every way to regain
the supremacy of the air. Realizing what a formidable enemy
America can be in the air, she will strengthen her aviation
forces in consequence.

"The aeroplane is by far the most powerful of all the modern
weapons. If the Allies have the supremacy of the air the German
artillery will lose its accuracy of aim. It is impossible,
because of the long range, for modern guns to fire without the
help of airplanes. The accuracy of artillery fire depends
entirely on its being directed by an airplane.

"This was clearly illustrated during the battle of the Somme in
1916. The French at that time had concentrated such a large
number of fighting machines that no German machine was allowed to
fly over the lines. On the other hand, the Allies' reconnaissance
machines were so numerous that each French battery could have its
fire directed by an airplane.

"The destruction of the enemy positions was in consequence
carried out very effectively and very rapidly, while the Germans
were obliged to fire blindly and scatter their shells over large
areas, incapable as they were of locating our battery
emplacements and the positions of our troops. Unluckily, a few
weeks later the Germans had called from the different parts of
the line a good many of their squadrons, and were able to carry
out their work under better conditions.

