"She must build reconnoissance machines which she will need for
her army; she must build a large number of fighting machines
because it is these machines that will destroy German planes; she
must also build squadrons of powerful bombing machines which will
go behind the German lines to destroy the railway junctions and
bomb the enemy cantonments, so as to give the soldiers no rest
even when they have left the trenches.

"Bombing done by a few machines gives poor results. The same
cannot be said of this operation carried out by a large number of
machines which can go to the same places and bomb continually.

"Besides the number of men that are actually killed in these
raids, great disturbance is caused in the enemy's communication
lines, thereby hindering the operations. For example, since the
British Admiralty has increased the number of its bombing
squadrons in northern France and has decided to attack constantly
the two harbours of Ostend and Zeebrugge and the locks, bridges,
and canals leading to them they have greatly interfered with the
activity of these two German bases.

"It is certain that shortly, owing to this, these two ports will
no more be used by German torpedo boats and submarines. What the
English Royal Naval Air Service has been able to accomplish with
100 machines the Flying Corps of the United States with 1000
machines must be able to carry out on other parts of the front.

"The work of the bombing machines is rendered difficult now by
the fact that the actual lines are far from Germany. But it is
hoped that soon fighting will be carried on near the enemy
frontier and then a wonderful field will be opened to the bombing
machines.

"All the big ammunition factories which are in the Rhine and Ruhr
valleys, like Krupp's, will be wonderful targets for the American
bombing machines. If these machines are of the proper type--that
is to say, sufficiently fast and well armed and able to carry a
great weight of bombs--nothing will prevent them from destroying
any of these important factories.

