So far the other does not seem to have noticed or recognized the
black flyer that already is poised as a hawk above him. All at
once there is a mighty swoop through the air like the drop of a
bird of prey, and in no time the black flyer is immediately over
the Englishman and the air is filled with the furious crackling
of a machine gun, followed by the rapid ta-ta-ta of two or three
more, all operated at the highest speed just as during a charge.
The Englishman drops a little, makes a circle and tries to escape
toward the rear. The other circles and attacks him in front, and
again we hear the exciting ta-ta-ta! Now the Englishman tries to
slip from under his opponent, but the German makes a circle and
the effort fails. Then the enemy describes a great circle and
attempts to rise above the German. The latter ascends in sharp
half circles and again swoops down upon the biplane, driving it
toward the German trenches.

Will the Englishman yield so soon? Scattered shouts of joy are
already heard in our ranks. Suddenly he drops a hundred yards and
more through the air and makes a skillful loop toward the rear.
Our warrior of the air swoops after him, tackles him once more
and again we hear the wild defiant rattle of the machine guns
over our heads. Now they are quite close to our trenches. The
French infantry and artillery begin firing in a last desperate
hope. Neither of them is touched. Sticking close above and behind
him the German drives the Englishman along some six hundred yards
over our heads and then just above the housetops of St. A. Once
more we hear a distant ta-ta-ta a little slower and more
scattered and then as they drop both disappear from our view.

Scarcely five minutes pass before the telephone brings up this
news: Lieutenant Boelke has just brought down his seventh flyer.

Methods of air-fighting were succinctly described in a hearing
before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs, in June, 1917. The
officers testifying were young Americans of the Lafayette Escadrille
of the French army. To the civilian the testimony is interesting for
the clear idea it gives of military aviation. The extracts following
are from the official record:

