_Adjt. Rumsey_: I think 5500 metres is about 19,000 feet. Some go
up 6000 metres, which makes about 20,000 feet.

_Adjt. Prince_: We go up there, and we have a certain sector of
the front to look after. If we are only man-hunting, we go
backward and forward like a policeman to prevent the Germans from
getting over our own lines. We usually fly by fours, if we can,
and the four go out together, so as not to be alone. We are
usually fighting inside of the German lines, because the morale
of the French and English is better than that of the Germans
to-day; and every fight I have had--I have never been lucky
enough to have one inside of my own lines--they have all been
inside of the German lines.

_Senator Kirby_: What is the equipment of a battle plane such as
you use?

_Adjt. Prince_: I use the 180 horse-power machine. It is called a
"S. P. A. D.," which has a Spanish motor. But a great many of the
motors to-day are being built here in America.

_Senator Kirby_: How many men do you carry?

_Adjt. Prince_: We go up alone in these machines. We did have two
guns. We had the Lewis gun on our upper wing and the Vickers down
below, that shoots through the propeller as the propeller turns
around. Then we gave up the Lewis above. It added more weight,
and we did not need it so much. The trouble with the Lewis gun is
that it has only ninety-seven cartridges, while the Vickers has
five hundred, and you can do just as much damage with the Vickers
as you could with them both.

_Senator Sutherland_: You drive and fight at the same time?

_Adjt. Prince_: Yes, sir.

_Adjt. Rumsey_: The machine gun is fixed.

_Adjt. Prince_: It is absolutely fixed on the machine, and if I
should want to adjust it to shoot you, I would adjust my machine
on you.

The witness then took up the nature and work of some of the heavier
machines. He testified:

_Adjt. Prince_: Then comes the artillery regulating machine. That
machine goes up, and it may be a Farman or a bi-motor, or some
other kind of heavier machine, a machine that goes slowly. They
go over a certain spot. They have a driver, who is a pilot, like
ourselves; then they have an artillery officer on board, whose
sole duty it is to send back word, mostly by Marconi, to his
battery where the shots are landing. He will say: "Too far," "Too
short," "Right," or "Left," and he stays there over this battery
until the work done by the French guns has been absolutely
controlled, and above him he has some of these battle planes
keeping him from being attacked from above by German airmen. Of
course, they may be shot at by anti-aircraft guns, which you can
not help. That is artillery regulating.

