But if the authorities seemed to lag, the inventors were busy.
Mention has already been made of the new "Liberty" motor, which
report had it was the fruit of the imprisonment of two mechanical
experts in a hotel room with orders that they should not be freed
until they had produced a motor which met all criticisms upon those
now in use. Their product is said to have met this test, and the
happy result caused a general wish that the Secretaries of War and
of the Navy might be similarly incarcerated and only liberated upon
producing plans for the immediate creation of an aërial fleet suited
to the nation's needs. If, however, the Liberty motor shall prove
the complete success which at the moment the government believes it
to be, it will be such a spur to the development of the airplane in
peace and war, as could not otherwise be applied. For the motor is
the true life of the airplane--its heart, lungs, and nerve centre.
The few people who still doubt the wide adoption of aircraft for
peaceful purposes after the war base their skepticism on the
treachery of motors still in use. They repudiate all comparisons
with automobiles. They say:

It is perfectly true that a man can run his car repeatedly from
New York to Boston without motor trouble. But the trouble is
inevitable sooner or later. When it comes to an automobile it is
trifling. The driver gets out and makes his repairs by the
roadside. But if it comes to the aviator it brings the
possibility of death with it every time. If his motor stops he
must descend. But to alight he must find a long level field, with
at least two hundred yards in which to run off his momentum. If,
when he discovers the failure of his motor, he is flying at the
height of a mile he must find his landing place within a space of
eight miles, for in gliding to earth the ratio of forward
movement to height is as eight to one. But how often in rugged
and densely populated New England, or Pennsylvania is there a
vacant level field half a mile in length? The aviator who made a
practice of daily flight between New York and Boston would
inevitably meet death in the end.

