Twenty-seven years later, in 1774, another Englishman, J. Day, built
a small submarine boat, and after fairly extensive experiments,
descended in his boat in Plymouth harbour. This descent is of
special interest because we have a more detailed record of it than
of any previous submarine exploit, and because Day is the first
submarine inventor who lost his life in the attempt to prove the
feasibility of his invention. The _Annual Register_ of 1774 gives a
narration in detail of Day's experiments and death and inasmuch as
this is the first ungarbled report of a submarine descent, it may be
quoted at length.

_Authentic account of a late unfortunate transaction, with
respect to a diving machine at Plymouth._


Mr. Day (the sole projector of the scheme, and, as matters have
turned out, the unhappy sacrifice to his own ingenuity) employed
his thoughts for some years past in planning a method of sinking
a vessel under water, with a man in it, who should live therein
for a certain time, and then by his own means only, bring himself
up to the surface. After much study he conceived that his plan
could be reduced into practice. He communicated his idea in the
part of the country where he lived, and had the most sanguine
hopes of success. He went so far as to try his project in the
Broads near Yarmouth. He fitted a Norwich market-boat for his
purpose, sunk himself thirty feet under water, where he continued
during the space of twenty-four hours, and executed his design to
his own entire satisfaction. Elated with this success, he then
wanted to avail himself of his invention. He conversed with his
friends, convinced them that he had brought his undertaking to a
certainty; but how to reap the advantage of it was the difficulty
that remained. The person in whom he confided suggested to him,
that, if he acquainted the sporting Gentlemen with the discovery,
and the certainty of the performance, considerable betts would
take place, as soon as the project would be mentioned in company.
The Sporting Kalendar was immediately looked into, and the name
of Blake soon occurred; that gentleman was fixed upon as the
person to whom Mr. Day ought to address himself. Accordingly, Mr.
Blake, in the month of November last, received the following
letter:

