"SIR,

"I found out an affair by which many thousands may be won; it is
of a paradoxical nature, but can be performed with ease;
therefore, sir, if you chuse to be informed of it, and give me
one hundred pounds of every thousand you shall win by it, I will
very readily wait upon you and inform you of it. I am myself
but a poor mechanic and not able to make anything by it without
your  assistance.

"Your's, etc.

"J. DAY."

Mr. Blake had no conception of Mr. Day's design, nor was he sure
that the letter was serious. To clear the matter up, he returned
for answer, that, if Mr. Day would come to town, and explain
himself, Mr. Blake would consider of the proposal. If he approved
of it, Mr. Day should have the recompence he desired; if, on the
other hand, the plan should be rejected, Mr. Blake would make him
a present to defray the expences of his journey. In a short time
after Mr. Day came to town; Mr. Blake saw him and desired to know
what secret he was possessed of. The man replied, "that he could
sink a ship 100 feet deep in the sea with himself in it, and
remain therein for the space of 24 hours, without communication
with anything above; and at the expiration of the time, rise up
again in the vessel." The proposal, in all its parts, was new to
Mr. Blake. He took down the particulars, and, after considering
the matter, desired some kind of proof of the practicability. The
man added that if Mr. Blake would furnish him with the materials
necessary, he would give him an occular demonstration. A model of
the vessel, with which he was to perform the experiment, was then
required, and in three or four weeks accomplished, so as to give
a perfect idea of the principle upon which the scheme was to be
executed, and, in time, a very plausible promise of success, not
to Mr. Blake only, but many other gentlemen who were consulted
upon the occasion. The consequence was, that Mr. Blake, agreeably
to the man's desire, advanced money for the construction of a
vessel fit for that purpose. Mr. Day, thus assisted, went to
Plymouth with his model, and set a man in that place to work upon
it. The pressure of the water at 100 feet deep was a circumstance
of which Mr. Blake was advised, and touching that article he gave
the strongest precautions to Mr. Day, telling him, at any
expence, to fortify the chamber in which he was to subsist,
against the weight of such a body of water. Mr. Day set off in
great spirits for Plymouth, and seemed so confident, that Mr.
Blake made a bett that the project would succeed, reducing,
however, the depth of water from 100 yards to 100 feet, and the
time from 24 to 12 hours. By the terms of the wager, the
experiment was to be made within three months from the date; but
so much time was necessary for due preparation, that on the
appointed day things were not in readiness and Mr. Blake lost the
bett.

