[Illustration: Photo by International Film Service.

_A French Nieuport Dropping a Bomb._]

In some short time afterwards the vessel was finished, and Mr.
Day still continued eager for the carrying of his plan into
execution; he was uneasy at the idea of dropping the scheme and
wished for an opportunity to convince Mr. Blake that he could
perform what he had undertaken. He wrote from Plymouth that
everything was in readiness and should be executed the moment Mr.
Blake arrived. Induced by this promise, Mr. Blake set out for
Plymouth; upon his arrival a trial was made in Cat-water, where
Mr. Day lay, during the flow of tide, six hours, and six more
during the tide of ebb; confined all the time in the room
appropriated for his use. A day for the final determination was
fixed; the vessel was towed to the place agreed upon; Mr. Day
provided himself with whatever he thought necessary; he went into
the vessel, let the water into her and with great composure
retired to the room constructed for him, and shut up the valve.
The ship went gradually down in 22 fathoms of water at 2 o'clock
on Tuesday, June 28, in the afternoon, being to return at 2 the
next morning. He had three buoys or messengers, which he could
send to the surface at option, to announce his situation below;
but, none appearing, Mr. Blake, who was near at hand in a barge,
began to entertain some suspicion. He kept a strict lookout, and
at the time appointed, neither the buoys nor the vessel coming
up, he applied to the _Orpheus_ frigate, which lay just off the
barge, for assistance. The captain with the most ready
benevolence supplied them with everything in his power to seek
for the ship. Mr. Blake, in this alarming situation was not
content with the help of the _Orpheus_ only; he made immediate
application to Lord Sandwich (who happened to be at Plymouth) for
further relief. His Lordship with great humanity ordered a number
of hands from the dock-yard, who went with the utmost alacrity
and tried every effort to regain the ship, but unhappily without
effect.

