Thus ended this unfortunate affair. Mr. Blake had not experience
enough to judge of all possible contingencies, and he had now
only to lament the credulity with which he listened to a
projector, fond of his own scheme but certainly not possessed of
skill enough to guard against the variety of accidents to which
he was liable. The poor man has unfortunately shortened his days;
he was not however tempted or influenced by anybody; he confided
in his own judgment, and put his life to the hazard upon his own
mistaken notions.

Many and various have been the opinions on this strange, useless,
and fatal experiment, though the more reasonable part of mankind
seemed to give it up as wholly impracticable. It is well-known,
that pent-up air, when overcharged with the vapours emitted out
of animal bodies, becomes unfit for respiration; for which
reason, those confined in the diving-bell, after continuing some
time under water are obliged to come up, and take in fresh air,
or by some such means recruit it. That any man should be able
after having sunk a vessel to so great a depth, to make that
vessel at pressure, so much more specifically lighter than water,
as thereby to enable it to force its way to the surface, through
the depressure of so great a weight, is a matter not hastily to
be credited. Even cork, when sunk to a certain depth will, by the
great weight of the fluid upon it, be prevented from rising.

The English of the _Annual Register_ leaves much to be desired in
clarity. It makes reasonably clear, however, that the unfortunate
Mr. Day's knowledge of submarine conditions was, by no means, equal
to Mr. Blake's sporting spirit. Even to-day one hundred feet is an
unusual depth of submersion for the largest submarines.

The credit for using a submarine boat for the first time in actual
warfare belongs to a Yankee, David Bushnell. He was born in
Saybrook, Connecticut, and graduated from Yale with the class of
1775. While still in college he was interested in science and as far
as his means and opportunities allowed, he devoted a great deal of
his time and energy to experimental work. The problem which
attracted his special attention was how to explode powder under
water, and before very long he succeeded in solving this to his own
satisfaction as well as to that of a number of prominent people
amongst whom were the Governor of Connecticut and his Council.
Bushnell's experiments, of course, fell in the period during which
the Revolutionary War was fought, and when he had completed his
invention, there naturally presented itself to him a further
problem. How could his device be used for the benefit of his country
and against the British ships which were then threatening New York
City? As a means to this end, Bushnell planned and built a submarine
boat which on account of its shape is usually called the _Turtle_.

