General Washington thought very highly of Bushnell, whom he called
in a letter to Thomas Jefferson "a man of great mechanical powers,
fertile in inventions and master of execution." In regard to
Bushnell's submarine boat the same letter, written after its
failure, says: "I thought and still think that it was an effort of
genius, but that too many things were necessary to be combined to
expect much against an enemy who are always on guard."

During the whole period of the building of the _Turtle_ Bushnell was
in ill health. Otherwise he would have navigated it on its trial
trip himself for he was a man of undoubted courage and wrapped up
alike in the merits of his invention and in the possibility of
utilizing it to free New York from the constant ignominy of the
presence of British ships in its harbour. But his health made this
out of the question. Accordingly he taught his brother the method of
navigating the craft, but at the moment for action the brother too
fell ill. It became necessary to hire an operator. This was by no
means easy as volunteers to go below the water in a submarine boat
of a type hitherto undreamed of, and to attach an explosive to the
hull of a British man-of-war, the sentries upon which were
presumably especially vigilant, being in a hostile harbour, was an
adventure likely to attract only the most daring and reckless
spirits. In a letter to Thomas Jefferson, other portions of which we
shall have occasion to quote later, Bushnell refers to this
difficulty in finding a suitable operator and tells briefly and with
evident chagrin the story of the failure of the attempts made to
utilize successfully his submarine:

[Illustration: Photo by U. & U.

_A Bomb-Dropping Taube._]

After various attempts to find an operator to my wish, I sent one
who appeared more expert than the rest from New York to a 50-gun
ship lying not far from Governor's Island. He went under the ship
and attempted to fix the wooden screw into her bottom, but
struck, as he supposes, a bar of iron which passes from the
rudder hinge, and is spiked under the ship's quarter. Had he
moved a few inches, which he might have done without rowing, I
have no doubt but he would have found wood where he might have
fixed the screw, or if the ship were sheathed with copper he
might easily have pierced it; but, not being well skilled in the
management of the vessel, in attempting to move to another place
he lost the ship. After seeking her in vain for some time, he
rowed some distance and rose to the surface of the water, but
found daylight had advanced so far that he durst not renew the
attempt. He says that he could easily have fastened the magazine
under the stem of the ship above water, as he rowed up to the
stern and touched it before he descended. Had he fastened it
there the explosion of 150 lbs. of powder (the quantity contained
in the magazine) must have been fatal to the ship. In his return
from the ship to New York he passed near Governor's Island, and
thought he was discovered by the enemy on the island. Being in
haste to avoid the danger he feared, he cast off the magazine, as
he imagined it retarded him in the swell, which was very
considerable. After the magazine had been cast off one hour, the
time the internal apparatus was set to run, it blew up with great
violence.

