Once more she was raised and once more volunteers rushed to man her.
On the fifth trip, however, the _Hundley_, while travelling
underwater, became entangled in the anchor chains of a boat she
passed and was held fast so long that her crew of nine were dead
when she was finally disentangled and raised.

Thirty-five lives had so far been lost without any actual results
having been accomplished. In spite of this a new crew was found. Her
commander, Lieutenant Dixon, was ordered to make an attack against
the Federal fleet immediately, using, however, the boat as a
submersible instead of a submarine.

Admiral David Porter in his _Naval History of the Civil War_
described the attack, which was directed against the U. S. S.
_Housatonic_, one of the newest Federal battleships, as follows:

At about 8.45 P. M., the officer of the deck on board the
unfortunate vessel discovered something about one hundred yards
away, moving along the water. It came directly towards the ship,
and within two minutes of the time it was first sighted was
alongside. The cable was slipped, the engines backed, and all
hands called to quarters. But it was too late--the torpedo struck
the _Housatonic_ just forward of the mainmast, on the starboard
side, on a line with the magazine. The man who steered her (the
_Hundley_) knew where the vital spots of the steamer were and he
did his work well. When the explosion took place the ship
trembled all over as if by the shock of an earthquake, and seemed
to be lifted out of the water, and then sank stern foremost,
heeling to port as she went down.

Only a part of the _Housatonic's_ complement was saved. Of the
_Hundley_ no trace was discovered and she was believed to have
escaped. Three years later, however, divers who had been sent down
to examine the hull of the _Housatonic_ found the little submarine
stuck in the hole made by her attack on the larger ship and inside
of her the bodies of her entire crew.

The submarines and near-submarines built in the United States during
the Civil War were remarkable rather for what they actually
accomplished than for what they contributed towards the development
of submarine boats. Perhaps the greatest service which they rendered
in the latter direction was that they proved to the satisfaction of
many scientific men that submarine boats really held vast
possibilities as instruments of naval warfare.

