Four water tanks were carried, one at each end and two in the
middle, and the water was expelled by four pumps worked by a little
electro-motor; these pumps also furnished the air necessary for the
crew and for the discharge of the torpedoes. For underwater vision,
an optical tube and a periscope had been provided.

On July 5, 1899, still another submarine boat was launched for the
French Navy. She was called the _Morse_. She was 118 feet long, 9
feet beam, displaced 146 tons, and was likewise made of "Roma"
bronze. The motive power was electricity and in many other respects
she was very similar to the _Gustave Zédé_, embodying, however, a
number of improvements. M. Calmette, who accompanied the French
Minister of War on the trial trip of the _Morse_, described his
experience in the Paris _Figaro_ as follows:

General André, Dr. Vincent, a naval doctor, and I entered the
submarine boat _Morse_ through the narrow opening in the upper
surface of the boat. Our excursion was to begin immediately; in
two hours we came to the surface of the water again three miles
to the north to rejoin the _Narval_. Turning to the crew, every
man of which was at his post, the commandant gave his orders,
dwelling with emphasis on each word. A sailor repeated his orders
one by one, and all was silent. The _Morse_ had already started
on its mysterious voyage, but was skimming along the surface
until outside the port in order to avoid the numerous craft in
the Arsenal. To say that at this moment, which I had so keenly
anticipated, I did not have the tremor which comes from contact
with the unknown would be beside the truth. On the other hand,
calm and imperturbable, but keenly curious as to this novel form
of navigation, General André had already taken his place near
the commandant on a folding seat. There were no chairs in this
long tube in which we were imprisoned. Everything was arranged
for the crew alone, with an eye to serious action. Moreover, the
Minister of War was too tall to stand upright beneath the iron
ceiling, and in any case it would be impossible to walk about.

