The most interesting moment of all now came. I hastened to the
little opening to get the impression of total immersion. The
lieutenant by the marine chart verified the depths. The casks of
water were filled and our supply of air was thereby renewed from
their stores of surplus air. In our tiny observatory, where
General André stationed himself above me, a most unexpected
spectacle presented itself as the boat was immersed.

The plunge was so gentle that in the perfect silence of the
waters one did not perceive the process of descent, and there was
only an instrument capable of indicating, by a needle, the depth
to which the _Morse_ was penetrating. The vessel was advancing
while at the same time it descended, but there was no sensation
of either advance or roll. As to respiration, it was as perfect
as in any room. M. de Lanessan, who since entering office has
ordered eight more submarine vessels, had concerned himself with
the question as a medical man also, and, thanks to the labours of
a commission formed by him, the difficulties of respiration were
entirely solved. The crew were able to remain under water sixteen
hours without the slightest strain. Our excursion on this
occasion lasted scarcely two hours. Towards noon, by means of
the mysterious periscope, which, always invisible, floated on the
surface and brought to the vessel below a reflection of all that
passed up above, the captain showed us the _Narval_, which had
just emerged with its two flags near the old battery
_Impregnable_. From the depths in which we were sailing we
watched its slightest manoeuvres until the admiral's flag, waving
on the top of a fort, reminded us that it was time to return.

[Illustration: _The Submarine's Perfect Work._

_Painting by John E. Whiting._]




CHAPTER XIII

JOHN P. HOLLAND AND SIMON LAKE


The Naval Committee of the House of Representatives of the United
States in the early part of 1900 held a meeting for the purpose of
hearing expert testimony upon the subject of submarines. Up to then
the United States authorities had shown, as compared with the ruling
powers of other navies, only a limited amount of interest in the
submarine question. Increased appropriations for the construction of
submarine boats which were then beginning to become more frequent in
other countries acted, however, as a stimulus at this time.

