1. Safety.
2. Facility and certainty of action when submerged.
3. Speed when running on the surface.
4. Speed when submerged.
5. Endurance, both submerged and on the surface.
6. Stability.
7. Visibility of object to be attacked.

In spite of the many years that have passed since this competition
and in spite of the tremendous progress that has been made in
submarine construction these are still the essential requirements
necessary to make a successful submarine boat.

The designs submitted by Mr. Lake provided for a twin-screw vessel,
80 feet long, 10 feet beam, and 115 tons displacement, with 400
horse-power steam engines for surface propulsion and 70 horse-power
motors for submerged work. The boat was to have a double hull, the
spaces between the inner and the outer hulls forming water ballast
tanks. There were to be four torpedo tubes, two forward and two aft.

In an article published in 1915 in _International Marine
Engineering_, Mr. Lake says about his 1893 design:

The new and novel feature which attracted the most attention and
skepticism regarding this design was (the author was later
informed by a member of the board) the claim made that the vessel
could readily navigate over the waterbed itself, and that while
navigating on the waterbed a door could be opened in the bottom
of a compartment and the water kept from entering the vessel by
means of compressed air, and that the crew could, by donning
diving suits, readily leave and enter the vessel while submerged.
Another novel feature was in the method of controlling the depth
of submergence when navigating between the surface and waterbed.
The vessel was designed to always submerge and navigate on a
level keel rather than to be inclined down or up by the back, to
"dive" or "rise." This maintenance of a level keel while
submerged was provided for by the installation of four depth
regulating vanes which I later termed "hydroplanes" to
distinguish them from the forward and aft levelling vanes or
horizontal rudders. These hydroplanes were located at equal
distances forward and aft of the center of gravity and buoyancy
of the vessel when in the submerged condition, so as not to
disturb the vessel when the planes were inclined down or up to
cause the vessel to submerge or rise when under way.

