I also used, in conjunction with the hydroplanes, horizontal
rudders which I then called "levelling vanes," as their purpose
was just the opposite from that of the horizontal rudder used in
the diving type of vessel. They were operated by a pendulum
controlling device to be inclined so as to always maintain the
vessel on a level keel rather than to cause her to depart
therefrom. When I came to try this combination out in practice, I
found hand control of the horizontal rudders was sufficient. If
vessels with this system of control have a sufficient amount of
stability, you will run for hours and automatically maintain both
a constant depth and a level keel, without the depth control man
touching either the hydroplane or horizontal rudder control gear.
This automatic maintenance of depth without manipulating the
hydroplanes or rudders was a performance not anticipated, nor
claimed in my original patent on the above-mentioned
combination, and what caused these vessels to function in this
manner remained a mystery, which was unsolved until I built a
model tank in 1905 in Berlin, Germany, and conducted a series of
experiments on models of submarines. I then learned that a down
pull of a hydroplane at a given degree of inclination varied
according to its depth of submergence and that the deeper the
submergence, the less the down pull. This works out to give
automatic trim on a substantially level keel, and I have known of
vessels running for a period of two hours without variation of
depth of one foot and without once changing the inclination of
either the hydroplanes or the horizontal rudder.

A great deal of skepticism was displayed for many years towards this
new system of controlling the depth of submergence. But in recent
years all the latest submarine boats have been built on this plan.

Who, then, was this mechanical genius who was responsible for these
far-going changes in submarine construction? Simon Lake was born at
Pleasantville, New Jersey, September 4, 1866. He was educated at
Clinton Liberal Institute, Fort Plain, New York, and Franklin
Institute, Philadelphia. Early in life he displayed a marked
interest in and genius for mechanical problems. His lack of success
in the 1893 competition only spurred him on to further efforts. As
long as the United States Government was unwilling to assist him in
building his submarine boat, there was nothing left for him except
to build it from his own means. In 1894, therefore, he set to work
on an experimental boat, called the _Argonaut, Jr._ According to Mr.
Lake's description as published in _International Marine
Engineering_ in a series of articles from his pen the _Argonaut,
Jr._, was

