provided with three wheels, two on either side forward and one
aft, the latter acting as a steering wheel. When on the bottom
the wheels were rotated by hand by one or two men inside the
boat. Her displacement was about seven tons, yet she could be
propelled at a moderate walking gait when on the bottom. She was
also fitted with an air lock and diver's compartment, so arranged
that by putting an air pressure on the diver's compartment equal
to the water pressure outside, a bottom door could be opened and
no water would come into the vessel. Then by putting on a pair of
rubber boots the operator could walk around on the sea bottom and
push the boat along with him and pick up objects, such as clams,
oysters, etc. from the sea bottom.

So much interest was aroused by this little wooden boat that Mr.
Lake was enabled to finance the building of a larger boat, called
the _Argonaut_. It was designed in 1895 and built in 1897 at
Baltimore.

Concerning the _Argonaut_ Mr. Lake says in the same article:

The _Argonaut_ as originally built was 36 feet long and 9 feet in
diameter. She was the first submarine to be fitted with an
internal-combustion engine. She was propelled with a thirty
horse-power gasoline (petrol) engine driving a screw propeller.
She was fitted with two toothed driving wheels forward which were
revolved by suitable gearing when navigating on the waterbed, or
they could be disconnected from this gearing and permitted to
revolve freely, propulsion being secured by the screw propeller.
A wheel in the rudder enabled her to be steered in any direction
when on the bottom. She also had a diving compartment to enable
divers to leave or enter the vessel when submerged, to operate on
wrecks or to permit inspection of the bottom or to recover
shellfish. She also had a lookout compartment in the extreme bow,
with a powerful searchlight to light up a pathway in front of her
as she moved along over the waterbed. This searchlight I later
found of little value except for night work in clear water. In
clear water the sunlight would permit of as good vision without
the use of the light as with it, while if the water was not
clear, no amount of light would permit of vision through it for
any considerable distance.

