In January, 1898 [says Mr. Lake], while the _Argonaut_ was
submerged, telephone conversation was held from submerged
stations with Baltimore, Washington, and New York.

In 1898, also, the _Argonaut_ made the trip from Norfolk to New
York under her own power and unescorted. In her original form she
was a cigar-shaped craft with only a small percentage of reserve
buoyancy in her surface cruising condition. We were caught out in
the severe November northeast storm of 1898 in which over 200
vessels were lost and we did not succeed in reaching a harbour in
the "horseshoe" back of Sandy Hook until, of course, in the
morning. The seas were so rough they would break over her conning
tower in such masses I was obliged to lash myself fast to prevent
being swept overboard. It was freezing weather and I was soaked
and covered with ice on reaching harbour.

This experience caused me to apply to the _Argonaut_ a further
improvement for which I had already applied for a patent. This
was, doubled around the usual pressure resisting body of a
submarine, a ship-shape form of light plating which would give
greater seaworthiness, better surface speed, and make the vessel
more habitable for surface navigation. It would, in other words,
make a "sea-going submarine," which the usual form of
cigar-shaped vessel was not, as it would not have sufficient
surface buoyancy to enable it to rise with the seas and the seas
would sweep over it as they would sweep over a partly submerged
rock.

The _Argonaut_ was, therefore, taken to Brooklyn, twenty feet
added to her length, and a light water-tight buoyancy
superstructure of ship-shape form added. This superstructure was
opened to the sea when it was desired to submerge the vessel,
and water was permitted to enter the space between the light
plating of the ship-shaped form and the heavy plating of the
pressure resisting hull. This equalized pressure on the light
plates and prevented their becoming deformed due to pressure. The
superstructure increased her reserve of buoyancy in the surface
cruising condition from about 10 per cent. to over 40 per cent.
and lifted right up to the seas like any ordinary type of surface
vessel, instead of being buried by them in rough weather.

