At 3.50 engine was again started, and went off nicely. Went into
diving compartment and opened door; came out through air-lock,
and left pressure there; found the wheels had buried about ten
inches or one foot, as the bottom had several inches of mud. We
had 500 pounds of air in the tanks, and it ran the pressure down
to 250 pounds to open the door in about thirty feet.

The temperature fell in the diving compartment to eighty-two
degrees after the compressed air was let in.

Cooked clam fritters and coffee for supper. The spirits of the
crew appeared to improve the longer we remained below; the time
was spent in catching clams, singing, trying to waltz, playing
cards, and writing letters to wives and sweethearts.

Our only visitors during the day were a couple of black bass that
came and looked in at the windows with a great deal of apparent
interest.

In future boats, it will be well to provide a smoking
compartment, as most of the crew had their smoking apparatus all
ready as soon as we came up.

Started pumps at 6.20, and arrived at the surface at 6.30. Down
altogether ten hours and fifteen minutes. People on pilot boat
_Calvert_ thought we were all hands drowned.

The second part of this article was called "A Voyage on the Bottom
of the Sea." It was written by Ray Stannard Baker, who had been
fortunate enough to receive an invitation from Mr. Lake to accompany
him on one of the trips of the _Argonaut_. Any one who has read
Jules Verne's fascinating story _Twenty Thousand Leagues under the
Sea_ must be struck immediately with the similarity between Mr.
Baker's experiences and those of Captain Nemo's guests. It is not at
all surprising, therefore, to have Mr. Baker tell us that during
this trip Mr. Lake told him:

"When I was ten years old, I read Jules Verne's _Twenty Thousand
Leagues under the Sea_, and I have been working on submarine
boats ever since."

Mr. Baker's record of what he saw and how he felt is not only a
credit to his keen powers of observation, but also a proof of the
fact that, in many ways, there was little difference between the
_Argonaut_ of 1898 and the most up-to-date submarine of to-day. In
part he says:

