Simon Lake planned an excursion on the bottom of the sea for
October 12, 1898. His strange amphibian craft, the _Argonaut_,
about which we had been hearing so many marvels, lay off the pier
at Atlantic Highlands. Before we were near enough to make out her
hulk, we saw a great black letter A, framed of heavy gas-pipe,
rising forty feet above the water. A flag rippled from its
summit. As we drew nearer, we discovered that there really wasn't
any hulk to make out--only a small oblong deck shouldering deep
in the water and supporting a slightly higher platform, from
which rose what seemed to be a squatty funnel. A moment later we
saw that the funnel was provided with a cap somewhat resembling a
tall silk hat, the crown of which was represented by a brass
binnacle. This cap was tilted back, and as we ran alongside, a
man stuck his head up over the rim and sang out, "Ahoy there!"

A considerable sea was running, but I observed that the
_Argonaut_ was planted as firmly in the water as a stone pillar,
the big waves splitting over her without imparting any
perceptible motion.

We scrambled up on the little platform, and peered down through
the open conning-tower, which we had taken for a funnel, into the
depths of the ship below. Wilson had started his gasoline engine.

Mr. Lake had taken his place at the wheel, and we were going
ahead slowly, steering straight across the bay toward Sandy Hook
and deeper water. The _Argonaut_ makes about five knots an hour
on the surface, but when she gets deep down on the sea bottom,
where she belongs, she can spin along more rapidly.

The _Argonaut_ was slowly sinking under the water. We became
momentarily more impressed with the extreme smallness of the
craft to which we were trusting our lives. The little platform
around the conning-tower on which we stood--in reality the top of
the gasoline tank--was scarcely a half dozen feet across, and the
_Argonaut_ herself was only thirty-six feet long. Her sides had
already faded out of sight, but not before we had seen how
solidly they were built--all of steel, riveted and reinforced, so
that the wonder grew how such a tremendous weight, when
submerged, could ever again be raised.

