Now we were entirely under water. The rippling noises that the
waves had made in beating against the upper structure of the boat
had ceased. As I looked through the thick glass port, the water
was only three inches from my eyes, and I could see thousands of
dainty, semi-translucent jellyfish floating about as lightly as
thistledown. They gathered in the eddy behind the conning-tower
in great numbers, bumping up sociably against one another and
darting up and down with each gentle movement of the water. And I
realized that we were in the domain of the fishes.

Jim brought the government chart, and Mr. Lake announced that we
were heading directly for Sandy Hook and the open ocean. But we
had not yet reached the bottom, and John was busily opening
valves and letting in more water. I went forward to the little
steel cuddy-hole in the extreme prow of the boat, and looked out
through the watch-port. The water had grown denser and yellower,
and I could not see much beyond the dim outlines of the ship's
spar reaching out forward. Jim said that he had often seen fishes
come swimming up wonderingly to gaze into the port. They would
remain quite motionless until he stirred his head, and then they
vanished instantly. Mr. Lake has a remarkable photograph which he
took of a visiting fish, and Wilson tells of nurturing a queer
flat crab for days in the crevice of one of the view-holes.

At that moment, I felt a faint jolt, and Mr. Lake said that we
were on the bottom of the sea.

Here we were running as comfortably along the bottom of Sandy
Hook Bay as we would ride in a Broadway car, and with quite as
much safety. Wilson, who was of a musical turn, was whistling
_Down Went McGinty_, and Mr. Lake, with his hands on the
pilot-wheel, put in an occasional word about his marvellous
invention. On the wall opposite there was a row of dials which
told automatically every fact about our condition that the most
nervous of men could wish to know. One of them shows the pressure
of air in the main compartment of the boat, another registers
vacuum, and when both are at zero, Mr. Lake knows that the
pressure of the air is normal, the same as it is on the surface,
and he tries to maintain it in this condition. There are also a
cyclometer, not unlike those used on bicycles, to show how far
the boat travels on the wheels; a depth gauge, which keeps us
accurately informed as to the depth of the boat in the water, and
a declension indicator. By the long finger of the declension dial
we could tell whether we were going up hill or down. Once while
we were out, there was a sudden, sharp shock, the pointer leaped
back, and then quivered steady again. Mr. Lake said that we had
probably struck a bit of wreckage or an embankment, but the
_Argonaut_ was running so lightly that she had leaped up jauntily
and slid over the obstruction.

