The officers' quarters consisted of four tiny compartments, two
on each side of the after corridor. The first two were the mess
room and chart room, and the second pair were the cabins of the
commander--a lieutenant--and his second in command, an ensign.
Behind them was an electric kitchen, and next came the engines,
first two sets of Diesel engines, one on each side of the
corridor, each of four hundred horse-power. These were for
running on the surface. Then came four bunks for the
quartermasters and last the electric motors for running under the
surface. The motors were run from storage batteries and were half
the power of the Diesel engines. The quarters of the crew were
along the sides of the forward corridor. The floors of the
corridor were an unbroken series of trap doors, covering the
storage tanks for drinking water, food, and the ship's supplies.
The torpedo tubes were forward of the men's quarters. Ten
torpedoes were carried. The ammunition for the deck gun was
stored immediately beneath the gun, which was mounted between the
turret and the first hatch, abaft the turret. Besides the turret
there were three hatches in the deck, one forward and two aft.

There were thirty-four men in the crew. The men are counted every
two hours, as there is great danger of men being lost overboard
when running on the surface, and in bad weather they are
sometimes counted as often as every half hour.

The turret was divided in two sections. In the after part was the
main hatch and behind it a stationary periscope, standing about
thirty inches above the surface of the water when the deck was
submerged and only the periscope showing. There was no opening in
the forward section of the turret, but the fighting periscope,
which could be drawn down into the interior or pushed up to ten
feet above the surface when the vessel was completely submerged,
extended through the top.

For two hours, turn and turn about, the commander and his second
stand watch on the iron grips in the turret, one eye on the
periscope, the other on the compass. And this goes on for weeks
on end. It is only when they lie for a few hours fifty to
seventy-five feet below the surface that they can get some rest.
And even then there is no real rest, for one or the other of them
must be constantly on duty, testing pipes and gauges, air
pressure, water pressure, and a thousand other things.

