[Illustration: Photo by U. & U.

_A British Submarine._]

The next morning in the direction indicated by that report
several patrol boats heard the sound of gunfire and overhauled a
steamer which had been attacked by a submarine. They gave chase
by "starring" to all the points of the compass, but could not
locate the enemy. A little later, however, another trawler
observed the wash of a submarine crossing her stern about two
hundred yards away. The trawler star-boarded, got into the wake
of the submarine and tried to ram her at full speed. She failed
to do this, as the U-boat was at too great a depth. The enemy
disappeared, and again the trawlers gathered and "starred."

[Illustration: Permission of _Scientific American_.

_Sectional View of the Nautilus._]

In the meantime, certain nets had been shot, and, though the
inclosed waters were very wide, it was quite certain that the
submarine was contained within them. Some hours later another
trawler heard firing and rushed toward the sound. About sunset
she sighted a submarine which was just dipping. The trawler
opened fire at once without result. The light was very bad and it
was very difficult to trace the enemy, but the trawler continued
the search, and about midnight she observed a small light close
to the water. She steamed within a few yards of it and hailed,
thinking it was a small boat. There was a considerable amount of
wreckage about, which was afterward proved to be the remains of a
patrol vessel sunk by the submarine. There was no reply to the
hail, and the light instantly disappeared. For the third time the
patrols gathered and "starred" from this new point.

And here the tale was taken up by a sailor who was in command of
another trawler at the time. I give it, so far as possible, in
his own words.

"About 4 o'clock in the morning I was called by Deckhand William
Brown to come on deck and see if an object sighted was a
submarine. I did so, and saw a submarine about a mile distant on
the port bow. I gave the order, 'Hard a-starboard.' The ship was
turned until the gun was able to bear on the submarine, and it
was kept bearing. At the same time I ordered hands to station,
and about ten minutes afterward I gave the order to fire. The
submarine immediately altered her course from W. to N. N. W., and
went away from us very fast. I burned lights to attract the
attention of the drifters, and we followed at our utmost speed,
making about eight knots and shipping light sprays. We fired
another shot about two minutes later, but it was breaking dawn,
and we were unable to see the fall of the shots. After the second
shot the submarine submerged. I hoisted warning signals and about
half an hour later I saw a large steamer turning round, distant
between two and three miles on our starboard beam. I headed
toward her, keeping the gun trained on her, as I expected,
judging by her action, that she had smelt the submarine. When we
were about a mile and a half from the steamer I saw the submarine
half a mile astern of her. We opened fire again, and gave her
four shots, with about two minutes between 'em. The submarine
then dodged behind the off quarter of the steamer."

