"No. Nothing satisfies the Admiralty but certainties. They count
the minimum losses of the enemy, and the maximum of their own.
Very proper, too. Then you know where you are. But, mind you, I
don't believe we finished him off that morning. Oil don't prove
that. It only proves we hit him. I believe it was the 'Maggie and
Rose' that killed him, or the 'Hawthorn.' No; it wasn't either.
It was the 'Loch Awe.'"

"How was that?"

"Well, as Commander White was telling you, we'd shot out nets to
the north and south of him. There were two or three hundred
miles, perhaps, in which he might wriggle about; but he couldn't
get out of the trap, even if he knew where to look for the
danger. He tried to run for home, and that's what finished him.
They'll tell you all about that on the 'Loch Awe.'"

So the next day I heard the end of the yarn from a sandy-haired
skipper in a trawler whose old romantic name was dark with new
significance. He was terribly logical. In his cabin--a
comfortable room with a fine big stove--he had a picture of his
wife and daughters, all very rigid and uncomfortable. He also had
three books. They included neither Burns nor Scott. One was the
Bible, thumbed by his grandfather and his father till the paper
had worn yellow and thin at the sides. The second, I am sorry to
say, was called _The Beautiful White Devil_. The third was an odd
volume of Froude in the _Everyman_ edition. It dealt with the
Armada.

"I was towin' my nets wi' the rest o' my group," he said, "till
about 3 o'clock i' the mornin' on yon occasion. It was fine
weather wi' a kind o' haar. All at once, my ship gaed six points
aff her coorse, frae S. E. to E. N. E., and I jaloused that the
nets had been fouled by some muckle movin' body. I gave orders to
pit the wheel hard a-port, but she wouldna answer. Suddenly the
strain on the nets stoppit.

"I needna tell you what had happened. Of course, it was
preceesely what the Admiralty had arranged tae happen when
gentlemen in undersea boats try to cut their way through our
nets. Mind ye, thae nets are verra expensive."

