I regarded him steadfastly. Then I remarked, "But it did not
touch the submarine. I saw it miss."

"Yes, you can miss it fifty yards and still crush the submarine."
He took up an empty egg shell. "The submarine is hollow like
this. She is held rigidly on all her sides by the water. Water is
non-compressible like steel. Now when the T. N. T. explodes, even
some distance away, the violent expending concussion is
communicated to this hollow shell just as though a battering ram
struck it. The submarine can't give any because the  surrounding
water holds her in place. So she crumples up--like this."

Pieron opened his hand and the flakes of egg shell fluttered down
until they struck the floor.

Gunfire undoubtedly is still the most reliable preventive against
submarine attacks. Comparatively small calibred guns can cause
serious damage to submarines even by one well directed shot.
Submarines have been sunk both by warships and merchantmen in this
way and many more have been forced to desist from attacks. Not every
merchantman, of course, can be equipped with the necessary guns and
gunners. Neither equipment nor men can be spared in sufficient
quantities. But the efficiency of gun protection has been proved
beyond all doubt by many authentic reports of successful encounters
between armed merchantmen and submarines in which the latter were
defeated.

Ramming, too, has been advocated and tried. It is, however, a
procedure involving considerable danger to the attacking boat. For
one thing all the submarine has to do is to dive quick and deep
enough and it is out of harm's way. Then, too, the chances are that
the submarine can launch a torpedo in time to reach the ramming
vessel before the latter can do any damage.

[Illustration: _A Critical Moment._

_Painting by John E. Whiting._]

There have been reports of submarine duels between Austrian and
Italian submarines in the Adriatic in which it was claimed that in
each at least one submarine was destroyed, and, at least, in one
instance both the duellists were sunk. Generally speaking the fact
has been established, however, that submarines cannot fight
submarines with any degree of success, except in exceptional cases
and under exceptional conditions.

