The interior cylindrical hull is divided by four transverse
bulkheads into five separate water-tight compartments.
Compartment No. 1, at the bow, contains the anchor cables and
electric winches for handling the anchor; also general ship
stores, and a certain amount of cargo. Compartment No. 2 is given
up entirely to cargo. Compartment No. 3, which is considerably
larger than any of the others, contains the living quarters of
the officers and crew. At the after end of this compartment, and
communicating with it, is the conning tower. Compartment No. 4 is
given up entirely to cargo. Compartment No. 5 contains the
propelling machinery, consisting of two heavy oil engines and two
electric motors. The storage batteries are carried in the bottom
of the boat, below the living compartment. For purposes of
communication, a gangway, 2 feet 6 inches wide by 6 feet high, is
built through each cargo compartment, thus rendering it possible
for the crew to pass entirely from one end of the boat to the
other.

The length of the _Deutschland_ is about 315 feet; beam 30 feet,
and draught 17 feet. For surface propulsion and for charging the
batteries, the boat carries two 4-cylinder, Diesel, heavy-oil
motors of about 600 H. P. each. The speed at the surface is from
12 to 13 knots; and submerged it is 7 knots. At the surface the
displacement of the boat is about 2000 tons, and she has a cargo
capacity of about 700 tons.

The freeboard to the main deck, which runs the full length of the
boat, but is only about 5-1/2 feet wide, is about 6 feet, and the
cockpit at the top of the conning tower is about 15 feet above
the water. This cockpit, by the way, is suggestive of the
protection afforded a chauffeur in an automobile, there being a
shield in front of the quartermaster, so shaped as to throw the
wind and spray upwards and clear of his face.

Two periscopes are provided; one at the forward end of the
conning tower, and the other, of larger diameter, being forward
and on the starboard of the conning tower. An interesting feature
is the two folding, steel, wireless masts, about 50 feet in
height, both of which fold aft into pockets built in the deck of
the ship. The forward one of these masts carries a crow's nest
for the lookout.

