While in the Gulf Stream we had an outer temperature of 28°
Celsius. This was about the warmth of the surrounding water.
Fresh air no longer entered. In the engine-room two 6-cylinder
combustion motors kept hammering away in a maddening two-four
time. They hurled the power of their explosions into the whirling
crankshafts. The red-hot breath of the consumed gases went
crashing out through the exhausts, but the glow of these
incessant firings remained in the cylinders and communicated
itself to the entire oil-dripping environment of steel. A choking
cloud of heat and oily vapour streamed from the engines and
spread itself like a leaden pressure through the entire ship.

During these days the temperature mounted to 53° Celsius.

And yet men lived and worked in a hell such as this! The watch
off duty, naked to the skin, groaned and writhed in their bunks.
It was no longer possible to think of sleep. And when one of the
men fell into a dull stupor, then he would be aroused by the
sweat which ran incessantly over his forehead and into his eyes,
and would awake to new torment.

It was almost like a blessed deliverance when the eight hours of
rest were over, and a new watch was called to the central or the
engine-room.

[Illustration: Redrawn from _The Sphere_. Permission of _Scientific
American_.

_A Submarine Discharging a Torpedo._]

But there the real martyrdom began. Clad only in an undershirt
and drawers, the men stood at their posts, a cloth wound about
their foreheads to keep the running sweat from streaming into
their eyes. Their blood hammered and raced in their temples.
Every vein boiled as with fever. It was only by the exertion of
the most tremendous willpower that it was possible to force the
dripping human body to perform its mechanical duty and to remain
upright during the four hours of the watch....

But how long would we be able to endure this?

I no longer kept a log during these days and I find merely this
one note: "Temperature must not rise any higher if the men are to
remain any longer in the engine-room."

