MALAYAN NAMES FOR THE ISLAND.

Since that period however, having become much better acquainted with
Malayan literature, and perused the writings of various parts of the
peninsula and islands where the language is spoken and cultivated, I am
enabled to say that Sumatra is well known amongst the eastern people and
the better-informed of the natives themselves by the two names of Indalas
and Pulo percha (or in the southern dialect Pritcho).

INDALAS.

Of the meaning or analogies of the former, which seems to have been
applied to it chiefly by the neighbouring people of Java, I have not any
conjecture, and only observe its resemblance (doubtless accidental) to
the Arabian denomination of Spain or Andalusia. In one passage I find the
Straits of Malacca termed the sea of Indalas, over which, we are gravely
told, a bridge was thrown by Alexander the Great.

PERCHA.

The latter and more common name is from a Malayan word signifying
fragments or tatters, and the application is whimsically explained by the
condition of the sails of the vessel in which the island was
circumnavigated for the first time; but it may with more plausibility be
supposed to allude to the broken or intersected land for which the
eastern coast is so remarkable. It will indeed be seen in the map that in
the vicinity of what are called Rupat's Straits there is a particular
place of this description named Pulo Percha, or the Broken Islands. As to
the appellation of Pulo Ber-api, or Volcano Island, which has also
occurred, it is too indefinite for a proper name in a region of the globe
where the phenomenon is by no means rare or peculiar, and should rather
be considered as a descriptive epithet.

MAGNITUDE.

In respect to magnitude, it ranks amongst the largest islands in the
world; but its breadth throughout is determined with so little accuracy
that any attempt to calculate its superficies must be liable to very
considerable error. Like Great Britain it is broadest at the southern
extremity, narrowing gradually to the north; and to this island it is
perhaps in size more nearly allied than in shape.

