MOUNTAINS.

A chain of mountains runs through its whole extent, the ranges being in
many parts double and treble, but situated in general much nearer to the
western than the opposite coast, being on the former seldom so much as
twenty miles from the sea, whilst on the eastern side the extent of level
country, in the broader part of the island, through which run the great
rivers of Siak, Indragiri, Jambi, and Palembang, cannot be less than a
hundred and fifty. The height of these mountains, though very great, is
not sufficient to occasion their being covered with snow during any part
of the year, as those in South America between the tropics are found to
be. Mount Ophir,* or Gunong Pasaman, situated immediately under the
equinoctial line, is supposed to be the highest visible from the sea, its
summit being elevated thirteen thousand eight hundred and forty-two feet
above that level; which is no more than two-thirds of the altitude the
French astronomers have ascribed to the loftiest of the Andes, but
somewhat exceeds that of the Peak of Tenerife.

(*Footnote. The following is the result of observations made by Mr.
Robert Nairne of the height of Mount Ophir:

Height of the peak above the level of the sea, in feet: 13,842.
English miles: 2.6216.
Nautical miles: 2.26325.
Inland, nearly: 26 nautical miles.
Distance from Massang Point: 32 nautical miles.
Distance at sea before the peak is sunk under the horizon: 125 nautical
miles.
Latitude of the peak: 0 degrees 6 minutes north.
A volcano mountain, south of Ophir, is short of that in height by: 1377
feet.
Inland, nearly 29 nautical miles.
In order to form a comparison I subjoin the height, as computed by
mathematicians, of other mountains in different parts of the world:
Chimborazo, the highest of the Andes, 3220 toises or 20,633 English feet.
Of this about 2400 feet from the summit are covered with eternal snow.
Carazon, ascended by the French astronomers: 15,800 English feet.
Peak of Tenerife. Feuille: 2270 toises or 13,265 feet.
Mount Blanc, Savoy. Sr. G. Shuckburgh: 15,662.
Mount Etna, Sr. G. Shuckburgh: 10,954.

