Between these ridges of mountains are extensive plains, considerably
elevated above the surface of the maritime lands, where the air is cool;
and from this advantage they are esteemed the most eligible portion of
the country, are consequently the best inhabited and the most cleared
from woods, which elsewhere in general throughout Sumatra cover both
hills and valleys with an eternal shade. Here too are found many large
and beautiful lakes that extend at intervals through the heart of the
country, and facilitate much the communication between the different
parts, but their dimensions, situation, or direction, are very little
known, though the natives make frequent mention of them in the accounts
of their journeys. Those principally spoken of are: one of great extent
but unascertained situation in the Batta country; one in the Korinchi
country, lately visited by Mr. C. Campbel; and another in the Lampong
country, extending towards Pasummah, navigated by boats of a large class
with sails, and requires a day and night to effect the passage across it;
which may be the case in the rainy season, as that part of the island
through which the Tulang Bawang River flows is subject to extensive
inundations, causing it to communicate with the river of the Palembang.
In a journey made many years since by a son of the sultan of the latter
place, to visit the English resident at Croee, he is said to have
proceeded by the way of that lake. It is much to be regretted that the
situation of so important a feature in the geography of the island should
be at this day the subject of uncertain conjecture.

WATERFALLS.

Waterfalls and cascades are not uncommon, as may be supposed in a country
of so uneven a surface as that of the western coast. A remarkable one
descends from the north side of Mount Pugong. The island of Mansalar,
lying off and affording shelter to the bay of Tappanuli, presents to the
view a fall of very striking appearance, the reservoir of which the
natives assert (in their fondness for the marvellous) to be a huge shell
of the species called kima (Chama gigas) found in great quantities in
that bay, as well as at New Guinea and other parts of the east.* At the
bottom of this fall ships occasionally take in their water without being
under the necessity of landing their casks; but such attempts are liable
to extreme hazard. A ship from England (the Elgin) attracted by the
appearance from sea of a small but beautiful cascade descending
perpendicularly from the steep cliff, that, like an immense rampart,
lines the seashore near Manna, sent a boat in order to procure fresh
water; but she was lost in the surf, and the crew drowned.

