(*Footnote. The largest I have seen was brought from Tappanuli by Mr.
James Moore of Arno's Vale in the north of Ireland. It is 3 feet 3 1/2
inches in its longest diameter, and 2 feet 1 1/4 inches across. One of
the methods of taking them in deep water is by thrusting a long bamboo
between the valves as they lie open, when, by the immediate closure which
follows, they are made fast. The substance of the shell is perfectly
white, several inches thick, is worked by the natives into arm-rings, and
in the hands of our artists is found to take a polish equal to the finest
statuary marble.)

RIVERS.

No country in the world is better supplied with water than the western
coast of the island. Springs are found wherever they are sought for, and
the rivers are innumerable; but they are in general too small and rapid
for the purpose of navigation. The vicinity of the mountains to that side
of the island occasions this profusion of rivulets, and at the same time
the imperfections that attend them, by not allowing them space to
accumulate to any considerable size. On the eastern coast the distance of
the range of hills not only affords a larger scope for the course of the
rivers before they disembogue, presents a greater surface for the
receptacle of rain and vapours, and enables them to unite a greater
number of subsidiary streams, but also renders the flux more steady and
uniform by the extent of level space than where the torrent rolls more
immediately from the mountains. But it is not to be understood that on
the western side there are no large rivers. Kataun, Indrapura, Tabuyong,
and Sinkel have a claim to that title, although inferior in size to
Palembang, Jambi, Indragiri, and Siak. The latter derive also a material
advantage from the shelter given to them by the peninsula of Malacca, and
Borneo, Banca, and the other islands of the Archipelago, which, breaking
the force of the sea, prevent the surf from forming those bars that choke
the entrance of the south-western rivers, and render them impracticable
to boats of any considerable draught of water. These labour too under
this additional inconvenience that scarcely any except the largest run
out to sea in a direct course. The continual action of the surf, more
powerful than the ordinary force of the stream, throws up at their mouths
a bank of sand, which in many instances has the effect of diverting their
course to a direction parallel with the shore, between the cliffs and the
beach, until the accumulated waters at length force their way wherever
there is found the weakest resistance. In the southerly monsoon, when the
surfs are usually highest, and the streams, from the dryness of the
weather, least rapid, this parallel course is of the greatest extent; and
Moco-moco River takes a course, at times, of two or three miles in this
manner, before it mixes with the sea; but as the rivers swell with the
rain they gradually remove obstructions and recover their natural
channel.

