AIR.

The heat of the air is by no means so intense as might be expected in a
country occupying the middle of the torrid zone. It is more temperate
than in many regions without the tropics, the thermometer, at the most
sultry hour, which is about two in the afternoon, generally fluctuating
between 82 and 85 degrees. I do not recollect to have ever seen it higher
than 86 in the shade, at Fort Marlborough; although at Natal, in latitude
34 minutes north, it is not unfrequently at 87 and 88 degrees. At sunrise
it is usually as low as 70; the sensation of cold however is much greater
than this would seem to indicate, as it occasions shivering and a
chattering of the teeth; doubtless from the greater relaxation of the
body and openness of the pores in that climate; for the same temperature
in England would be esteemed a considerable degree of warmth. These
observations on the state of the air apply only to the districts near the
sea-coast, where, from their comparatively low situation, and the greater
compression of the atmosphere, the sun's rays operate more powerfully.
Inland, as the country ascends, the degree of heat decreases rapidly,
insomuch that beyond the first range of hills the inhabitants find it
expedient to light fires in the morning, and continue them till the day
is advanced, for the purpose of warming themselves; a practice unknown in
the other parts of the island; and in the journal of Lieutenant Dare's
expedition it appears that during one night's halt on the summit of a
mountain, in the rainy season, he lost several of his party from the
severity of the weather, whilst the thermometer was not lower than 40
degrees. To the cold also they attribute the backwardness in growth of
the coconut-tree, which is sometimes twenty or thirty years in coming to
perfection, and often fails to produce fruit. Situations are uniformly
colder in proportion to their height above the level of the sea, unless
where local circumstances, such as the neighbourhood of sandy plains,
contribute to produce a contrary effect; but in Sumatra the coolness of
the air is promoted by the quality of the soil, which is clayey, and the
constant and strong verdure that prevails, which, by absorbing the sun's
rays, prevents the effect of their reflection. The circumstance of the
island being so narrow contributes also to its general temperateness, as
wind directly or recently from the sea is seldom possessed of any violent
degree of heat, usually acquired in passing over large tracts of land in
the tropical climates. Frost, snow, and hail I believe to be unknown to
the inhabitants. The hill-people in the country of Lampong speak indeed
of a peculiar kind of rain that falls there, which some have supposed to
be what we call sleet; but the fact is not sufficiently established. The
atmosphere is in common more cloudy than in Europe, which is sensibly
perceived from the infrequency of clear starlight nights. This may
proceed from the greater rarefaction of the air occasioning the clouds to
descend lower and become more opaque, or merely from the stronger heat
exhaling from the land and sea a thicker and more plentiful vapour. The
fog, called kabut by the natives, which is observed to rise every morning
among the distant hills, is dense to a surprising degree; the extremities
of it, even when near at hand, being perfectly defined; and it seldom is
observed to disperse till about three hours after sunrise.

