(*Footnote. Since the above was written accounts have been received that
a magazine at Fort Marlborough, containing four hundred barrels of
powder, was fired by lightning and blown up on the 18th of March 1782.)

MONSOONS.

The causes which produce a successive variety of seasons in the parts of
the earth without the tropics, having no relation or respect to the
region of the torrid zone, a different order takes place there, and the
year is distinguished into two divisions, usually called the rainy and
dry monsoons or seasons, from the weather peculiar to each. In the
several parts of India these monsoons are governed by various particular
laws in regard to the time of their commencement, period of duration,
circumstances attending their change, and direction of the prevailing
wind according to the nature and situation of the lands and coasts where
their influence is felt. The farther peninsula of India, where the
kingdom of Siam lies, experiences at the same time the effects of
opposite seasons; the western side, in the Bay of Bengal, being exposed
for half the year to continual rains, whilst on the eastern side the
finest weather is enjoyed; and so on the different coasts of Indostan the
monsoons exert their influence alternately; the one remaining serene and
undisturbed whilst the other is agitated by storms. Along the coast of
Coromandel the change, or breaking up of the monsoon as it is called, is
frequently attended with the most violent gales of wind.

On the west coast of Sumatra, southward of the equinoctial, the
south-east monsoon or dry season begins about May and slackens in
September: the north-west monsoon begins about November, and the hard
rains cease about March. The monsoons for the most part commence and
leave off gradually there; the months of April and May, October and
November generally affording weather and winds variable and uncertain.

CAUSE OF THE MONSOONS.

The causes of these periodical winds have been investigated by several
able naturalists, whose systems, however, do not entirely correspond
either in the principles laid down or in their application to the effects
known to be produced in different parts of the globe. I shall summarily
mention what appear to be the most evident, or probable at least, among
the general laws, or inferences, which have been deduced from the
examination of this subject. If the sea were perfectly uninterrupted and
free from the irregular influence of lands, a perpetual easterly wind
would prevail in all that space comprehended between the twenty-eighth or
thirteenth degrees of north and south latitude. This is primarily
occasioned by the diurnal revolution of the earth upon its axis from west
to east; but whether through the operation of the sun, proceeding
westward, upon the atmospheric fluid, or the rapidity of revolution of
the solid body, which leaves behind it that fluid with which it is
surrounded, and thereby causes it virtually to recede in a contrary
direction; or whether these principles cooperate, or unequally oppose
each other, as has been ingeniously contended, I shall not take upon me
to decide. It is sufficient to say that such an effect appears to be the
first general law of the tropical winds. Whatever may be the degree of
the sun's influence upon the atmosphere in his transient diurnal course,
it cannot be doubted but that, in regard to his station in the path of
the ecliptic, his power is considerable. Towards that region of the air
which is rarefied by the more immediate presence of the heat, the colder
and denser parts will naturally flow. Consequently from about, and a few
degrees beyond, the tropics, on either side, the air tends towards the
equator; and, combining with the general eastern current before
mentioned, produces (or would, if the surface were uniform) a north-east
wind in the northern division, and a south-east in the southern; varying
in the extent of its course as the sun happens to be more or less remote
at the time. These are denominated the trade-winds, and are the subject
of the second general observation. It is evident that, with respect to
the middle space between the tropics, those parts which at one season of
the year lie to the northward of the sun, are, during another, to the
southward of him; and of course that an alteration of the effects last
described must take place, according to the relative situation of the
luminary; or in other words, that the principle which causes at one time
a north-east wind to prevail at any particular spot in those latitudes
must, when the circumstances are changed, occasion a south-east wind.
Such may be esteemed the outline of the periodical winds, which
undoubtedly depend upon the alternate course of the sun northwards and
southwards; and this I state as the third general law. But although this
may be conformable with experience in extensive oceans, yet, in the
vicinity of continents and great islands, deviations are remarked that
almost seem to overturn the principle. Along the western coast of Africa
and in some parts of the Indian seas, the periodical winds, or monsoons
as they are termed in the latter, blow from the west-north-west and
south-west, according to the situation, extent, and nature of the nearest
lands; the effect of which upon the incumbent atmosphere, when heated by
the sun at those seasons in which he is vertical, is prodigious, and
possibly superior to that of any other cause which contributes to the
production or direction of wind. To trace the operation of this irregular
principle through the several winds prevalent in India, and their
periodical failures and changes, would prove an intricate but, I
conceive, by no means an impossible task.* It is foreign however to my
present purpose, and I shall only observe that the north-east monsoon is
changed, on the western coast of Sumatra, to north-west or
west-north-west by the influence of the land. During the south-east
monsoon the wind is found to blow there, between that point and south.
Whilst the sun continues near the equator the winds are variable, nor is
their direction fixed till he has advanced several degrees towards the
tropic: and this is the cause of the monsoons usually setting in, as I
have observed, about May and November, instead of the equinoctial months.

