(*Footnote. It has been attempted, and with much ingenious reasoning, by
Mr. Semeyns in the third volume of the Haerlem Transactions which have
but lately fallen into my hands.)

LAND AND SEA BREEZES.

Thus much is sufficient with regard to the periodical winds. I shall
proceed to give an account of those distinguished by the appellation of
land and sea breezes, which require from me a minuter investigation, both
because, as being more local, they more especially belong to my subject,
and that their nature has hitherto been less particularly treated of by
naturalists.

In this island, as well as all other countries between the tropics of any
considerable extent, the wind uniformly blows from the sea to the land
for a certain number of hours in the four and twenty, and then changes
and blows for about as many from the land to the sea; excepting only when
the monsoon rages with remarkable violence, and even at such time the
wind rarely fails to incline a few points, in compliance with the efforts
of the subordinate clause, which has not power, under these
circumstances, to produce an entire change. On the west coast of Sumatra
the sea-breeze usually sets in, after an hour or two of calm, about ten
in the forenoon, and continues till near six in the evening. About seven
the land-breeze comes off, and prevails through the night till towards
eight in the morning, when it gradually dies away.

CAUSE OF THE LAND AND SEA-BREEZES.

These depend upon the same general principle that causes and regulates
all other wind. Heat acting upon air rarefies it, by which it becomes
specifically lighter, and mounts upward. The denser parts of the
atmosphere which surround that so rarefied, rush into the vacuity from
their superior weight; endeavouring, as the laws of gravity require, to
restore the equilibrium. Thus in the round buildings where the
manufactory of glass is carried on, the heat of the furnace in the centre
being intense, a violent current of air may be perceived to force its way
in, through doors or crevices, on opposite sides of the house. As the
general winds are caused by the DIRECT influence of the sun's rays upon
the atmosphere, that particular deviation of the current distinguished by
the name of land and sea breezes is caused by the influence of his
REFLECTED rays, returned from the earth or sea on which they strike. The
surface of the earth is more suddenly heated by the rays of the sun than
that of the sea, from its greater density and state of rest; consequently
it reflects those rays sooner and with more power: but, owing also to its
density, the heat is more superficial than that imbibed by the sea, which
becomes more intimately warmed by its transparency and by its motion,
continually presenting a fresh surface to the sun. I shall now endeavour
to apply these principles. By the time the rising sun has ascended to the
height of thirty or forty degrees above the horizon the earth has
acquired, and reflected on the body of air situated over it, a degree of
heat sufficient to rarefy it and destroy its equilibrium; in consequence
of which the body of air above the sea, not being equally, or scarcely at
all, rarefied, rushes towards the land and the same causes operating so
long as the sun continues above the horizon, a constant sea-breeze, or
current of air from sea to land, prevails during that time. From about an
hour before sunset the surface of the earth begins to lose the heat it
has acquired from the more perpendicular rays. That influence of course
ceases, and a calm succeeds. The warmth imparted to the sea, not so
violent as that of the land but more deeply imbibed, and consequently
more permanent, now acts in turn, and by the rarefaction it causes draws
towards its region the land air, grown cooler, more dense, and heavier,
which continues thus to flow back till the earth, by a renovation of its
heat in the morning, once more obtains the ascendancy. Such is the
general rule, conformable with experience, and founded, as it seems to
me, in the laws of motion and the nature of things. The following
observations will serve to corroborate what I have advanced, and to throw
additional light on the subject for the information and guidance of any
future investigator.

