CAUSES OF THIS INEQUALITY.

To me it would seem that the springs of water with which these parts of
the island abound in an uncommon degree operate directly, though
obscurely, to the producing this irregularity of the surface of the
earth. They derive their number and an extraordinary portion of activity
from the loftiness of the ranges of mountains that occupy the interior
country, and intercept and collect the floating vapours. Precipitated
into rain at such a hight, the water acquires in its descent through the
fissures or pores of these mountains a considerable force which exerts
itself in every direction, lateral and perpendicular, to procure a vent.
The existence of these copious springs is proved in the facility with
which wells are everywhere sunk; requiring no choice of ground but as it
may respect the convenience of the proprietor; all situations, whether
high or low, being prodigal of this valuable element. Where the
approaches of the sea have rendered the cliffs abrupt, innumerable rills,
or rather a continued moisture, is seen to ooze through and trickle down
the steep. Where on the contrary the sea has retired and thrown up banks
of sand in its retreat I have remarked the streams of water, at a certain
level and commonly between the boundaries of the tide, effecting their
passage through the loose and feeble barrier opposed to them. In short,
every part of the low country is pregnant with springs that labour for
the birth; and these continual struggles, this violent activity of
subterraneous waters, must gradually undermine the plains above. The
earth is imperceptibly excavated, the surface settles in, and hence the
inequalities we speak of. The operation is slow but unremitting, and, I
conceive, fully capable of the effect.

MINERAL PRODUCTIONS.

The earth of Sumatra is rich in minerals and other fossil productions.

GOLD.

No country has been more famous in all ages for gold, and, though the
sources from whence it is drawn may be supposed in some measure exhausted
by the avarice and industry of ages, yet at this day the quantity
procured is very considerable, and doubtless might be much increased were
the simple labour of the gatherer assisted by a knowledge of the arts of
mineralogy.

