EARTHQUAKES.

The high trees with which the country thereabout is covered, prevent the
crater from being discernible at a distance; and this proves that the
spot is not considerably raised or otherwise affected by the earthquakes
which are very frequently felt there. Sometimes it has emitted smoke upon
these occasions, and in other instances not. Yet during a smart
earthquake which happened a few years before my arrival it was remarked
to send forth flame, which it is rarely known to do.* The apprehension of
the European inhabitants however is rather more excited when it continues
any length of time without a tendency to an eruption, as they conceive it
to be the vent by which the inflammable matter escapes that would
otherwise produce these commotions of the earth. Comparatively with the
descriptions I have read of earthquakes in South America, Calabria, and
other countries, those which happen in Sumatra are generally very slight;
and the usual manner of building renders them but little formidable to
the natives.

(*Footnote. Some gentlemen who deny the fact of its having at any time
emitted flame, conjecture that what exhibits the appearance of smoke is
more probably vapour arising from a considerable hot spring. The natives
speak of it as a volcano.)

REMARKABLE EFFECTS OF AN EARTHQUAKE.

The most severe that I have known was chiefly experienced in the district
of Manna in the year 1770. A village was destroyed by the houses falling
down and taking fire, and several lives were lost.* The ground was in one
place rent a quarter of a mile, the width of two fathoms, and depth of
four or five. A bituminous matter is described to have swelled over the
sides of the cavity, and the earth for a long time after the shocks was
observed to contract and dilate alternately. Many parts of the hills far
inland could be distinguished to have given way, and a consequence of
this was that during three weeks Manna River was so much impregnated with
particles of clay that the natives could not bathe in it. At this time
was formed near to the mouth of Padang Guchi, a neighbouring river south
of the former, a large plain, seven miles long and half a mile broad;
where there had been before only a narrow beach. The quantity of earth
brought down on this occasion was so considerable that the hill upon
which the English resident's house stands appears, from indubitable
marks, less elevated by fifteen feet than it was before the event.

