(*Footnote. Since I formed this conjecture I have been told that such a
tradition of no very ancient date prevails amongst the inhabitants.)

ENCROACHMENT OF THE SEA.

None such are found toward Sungei-Lamo and the rest of the shore
northward of Marlborough Point, where, on the contrary, you perceive the
effects of continual depredations by the ocean. The old forest trees are
there yearly undermined and, falling, obstruct the traveller; whilst
about Pulo the arau-trees are continually springing up faster than they
can be cut down or otherwise destroyed. Nature will not readily be forced
from her course. The last time I visited that part there was a beautiful
rising grove of these trees, establishing a possession in their proper
soil. The country, as well immediately here about as to a considerable
distance inland, is an entire bed of sand without any mixture of clay or
mould, which I know to have been in vain sought for many miles up the
neighbouring rivers. To the northward of Padang there is a plain which
has evidently been, in former times, a bay. Traces of a shelving beach
are there distinguishable at the distance of one hundred and fifty yards
from the present boundary of the sea.

But upon what hypothesis can it be accounted for that the sea should
commit depredations on the northern coast, of which there are the most
evident tokens as high up at least as Ipu, and probably to Indrapura,
where the shelter of the neighbouring islands may put a stop to them, and
that it should restore the land to the southward in the manner I have
described? I am aware that according to the general motion of the tides
from east to west this coast ought to receive a continual accession
proportioned to the loss which others, exposed to the direction of this
motion, must and do sustain; and it is likely that it does gain upon the
whole. But the nature of my work obliges me to be more attentive to
effects than causes, and to record facts though they should clash with
systems the most just in theory, and most respectable in point of
authority.

