The surf forms sometimes but a single range along the shore. At other
times there is a succession of two, three, four, or more, behind each
other, extending perhaps half a mile out to sea. The number of ranges is
generally in proportion to the height and violence of the surf.

The surf begins to assume its form at some distance from the place where
it breaks, gradually accumulating as it moves forward till it gains a
height, in common, of fifteen to twenty feet,* when it overhangs at top
and falls like a cascade, nearly perpendicular, involving itself as it
descends. The noise made by the fall is prodigious, and during the
stillness of the night may be heard many miles up the country.

(*Footnote. It may be presumed that in this estimation of its height I
was considerably deceived.)

Though in the rising and formation of the surf the water seems to have a
quick progressive motion towards the land, yet a light body on the
surface is not carried forward, but, on the contrary, if the tide is
ebbing, will recede from the shore; from which it would follow that the
motion is only propagated in the water, like sound in air, and not the
mass of water protruded. A similar species of motion is observed on
shaking at one end a long cord held moderately slack, which is expressed
by the word undulation. I have sometimes remarked however that a body
which sinks deep and takes hold of the water appears to move towards
shore with the course of the surf, as is perceptible in a boat landing
which seems to shoot swiftly forward on the top of the swell; though
probably it is only after having reached the summit, and may owe its
velocity to its own weight in the descent.

Countries where the surfs prevail require boats of a peculiar
construction, and the art of managing them demands the experience of a
man's life. All European boats are more or less unfit, and seldom fail to
occasion the sacrifice of the people on board them, in the imprudent
attempts that are sometimes made to land with them on the open coast. The
natives of Coromandel are remarkably expert in the management of their
craft; but it is to be observed that the intervals between the breaking
of the surfs are usually on that coast much longer than on the coast of
Sumatra.

