The force of the surf is extremely great. I have known it to overset a
country vessel in such a manner that the top of the mast has stuck in the
sand, and the lower end made its appearance through her bottom. Pieces of
cloth have been taken up from a wreck, twisted and rent by its involved
motion. In some places the surfs are usually greater at high, and in
others at low, water; but I believe they are uniformly more violent
during the spring-tides.

CONSIDERATIONS RESPECTING THE CAUSE OF THE SURF.

I shall proceed to inquire into the efficient cause of the surfs. The
winds have doubtless a strong relation to them. If the air was in all
places of equal density, and not liable to any motion, I suppose the
water would also remain perfectly at rest and its surface even;
abstracting from the general course of the tides and the partial
irregularities occasioned by the influx of rivers. The current of the air
impels the water and causes a swell, which is the regular rising and
subsiding of the waves. This rise and fall is similar to the vibrations
of a pendulum and subject to like laws. When a wave is at its height it
descends by the force of gravity, and the momentum acquired in descending
impels the neighbouring particles, which in their turn rise and impel
others, and thus form a succession of waves. This is the case in the open
sea; but when the swell approaches the shore and the depth of water is
not in proportion to the size of the swell the subsiding wave, instead of
pressing on a body of water, which might rise in equal quantity, presses
on the ground, whose reaction causes it to rush on in that manner which
we call a surf. Some think that the peculiar form of it may be plainly
accounted for from the shallowness and shelving of the beach. When a
swell draws near to such a beach the lower parts of the water, meeting
first with obstruction from the bottom, stand still, whilst the higher
parts respectively move onward, by which a rolling and involved motion is
produced that is augmented by the return of the preceding swell. I object
that this solution is founded on the supposition of an actual progressive
motion of the body of water in forming a surf; and, that certainly not
being the fact, it seems deficient. The only real progression of the
water is occasioned by the perpendicular fall, after the breaking of the
surf, when from its weight it foams on to a greater or less distance in
proportion to the height from which it fell and the slope of the shore.

