That the surfs are not, like common waves, the immediate effect of the
wind, is evident from this, that the highest and most violent often
happen when there is the least wind and vice versa. And sometimes the
surfs will continue with an equal degree of violence during a variety of
weather. On the west coast of Sumatra the highest are experienced during
the south-east monsoon, which is never attended with such gales of wind
as the north-west. The motion of the surf is not observed to follow the
course of the wind, but often the contrary; and when it blows hard from
the land the spray of the sea may be seen to fly in a direction opposite
to the body of it, though the wind has been for many hours in the same
point.

Are the surfs the effect of gales of wind at sea, which do not happen to
extend to the shore but cause a violent agitation throughout a
considerable tract of the waters, which motion, communicating with less
distant parts, and meeting at length with resistance from the shore,
occasions the sea to swell and break in the manner described? To this I
object that there seems no regular correspondence between their magnitude
and the apparent agitation of the water without them: that gales of wind,
except at particular periods, are very unfrequent in the Indian seas,
where the navigation is well known to be remarkably safe, whilst the
surfs are almost continual; and that gales are not found to produce this
effect in other extensive oceans. The west coast of Ireland borders a sea
nearly as extensive and much more wild than the coast of Sumatra, and yet
there, though when it blows hard the swell on the shore is high and
dangerous, is there nothing that resembles the surfs of India.

PROBABLE CAUSE OF THE SURF.

These, so general in the tropical latitudes, are, upon the most probable
hypothesis I have been able to form, after long observation and much
thought and inquiry, the consequence of the trade or perpetual winds
which prevail at a distance from shore between the parallels of thirty
degrees north and south, whose uniform and invariable action causes a
long and constant swell, that exists even in the calmest weather, about
the line, towards which its direction tends from either side. This swell
or libration of the sea is so prodigiously long, and the sensible effect
of its height, of course, so much diminished, that it is not often
attended to; the gradual slope engrossing almost the whole horizon when
the eye is not very much elevated above its surface: but persons who have
sailed in those parts may recollect that, even when the sea is apparently
the most still and level, a boat or other object at a distance from the
ship will be hidden from the sight of one looking towards it from the
lower deck for the space of minutes together. This swell, when a squall
happens or the wind freshens up, will for a time have other subsidiary
waves on the extent of its surface, breaking often in a direction
contrary to it, and which will again subside as a calm returns without
having produced on it any perceptible effect. Sumatra, though not
continually exposed to the south-east trade-wind, is not so distant but
that its influence may be presumed to extend to it, and accordingly at
Pulo Pisang, near the southern extremity of the island, a constant
southerly sea is observed even after a hard north-west wind. This
incessant and powerful swell rolling in from an ocean, open even to the
pole, seems an agent adequate to the prodigious effects produced on the
coast; whilst its very size contributes to its being overlooked. It
reconciles almost all the difficulties which the phenomena seem to
present, and in particular it accounts for the decrease of the surf
during the north-west monsoon, the local wind then counteracting the
operation of the general one; and it is corroborated by an observation I
have made that the surfs on the Sumatran coast ever begin to break at
their southern extreme, the motion of the swell not being perpendicular
to the direction of the shore. This manner of explaining their origin
seems to carry much reason with it; but there occurs to me one objection
which I cannot get over, and which a regard to truth obliges me to state.
The trade-winds are remarkably steady and uniform, and the swell
generated by them is the same. The surfs are much the reverse, seldom
persevering for two days in the same degree of violence; often mountains
high in the morning and nearly subsided by night. How comes a uniform
cause to produce effects so unsteady, unless by the intervention of
secondary causes, whose nature and operation we are unacquainted with?

