It is clear to me that the surfs as above described are peculiar to those
climates which lie within the remoter limits of the trade-winds, though
in higher latitudes large swells and irregular breakings of the sea are
to be met with after boisterous weather. Possibly the following causes
may be judged to conspire, with that I have already specified, towards
occasioning this distinction. The former region being exposed to the
immediate influence of the two great luminaries, the water, from their
direct impulse, is liable to more violent agitation than nearer the poles
where their power is felt only by indirect communication. The equatorial
parts of the earth performing their diurnal revolution with greater
velocity than the rest, a larger circle being described in the same time,
the waters thereabout, from the stronger centrifugal force, may be
supposed to feel less restraint from the sluggish principle of matter; to
have less gravity; and therefore to be more obedient to external impulses
of every kind, whether from the winds or any other cause.

TIDES.

The spring-tides on the west coast of Sumatra are estimated to rise in
general no more than four feet, owing to its open, unconfined situation,
which prevents any accumulation of the tide, as is the case in narrow
seas. It is always high-water there when the moon is in the horizon, and
consequently at six o'clock nearly, on the days of conjunction and
opposition throughout the year, in parts not far remote from the
equator.* This, according to Newton's theory, is about three hours later
than the uninterrupted course of nature, owing to the obvious impediment
the waters meet with in revolving from the eastward.

(*Footnote. Owing to this uniformity it becomes an easy matter for the
natives to ascertain the height of the tide at any hour that the moon is
visible. Whilst she appears to ascend the water falls and vice versa; the
lowest of the ebb happening when she is in her meridian. The vulgar rule
for calculating the tides is rendered also to Europeans more simple and
practical from the same cause. There only needs to add together the
epact, number of the month, and day of the month; the sum of which, if
under thirty, gives the moon's age--the excess, if over. Allow
forty-eight minutes for each day or, which is the same, take four-fifths
of the age, and it will give you the number of hours after six o'clock at
which high-water happens. A readiness at this calculation is particularly
useful in a country where the sea-beach is the general road for
travelling.)

