
CHAPTER 2.

DISTINCTION OF INHABITANTS.
REJANGS CHOSEN FOR GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
PERSONS AND COMPLEXION.
CLOTHING AND ORNAMENTS.

GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE INHABITANTS.

Having exhibited a general view of the island as it is in the hands of
nature, I shall now proceed to a description of the people who inhabit
and cultivate it, and shall endeavour to distinguish the several species
or classes of them in such a manner as may best tend to perspicuity, and
to furnish clear ideas of the matter.

VARIOUS MODES OF DIVISION.

The most obvious division, and which has been usually made by the writers
of voyages, is that of Mahometan inhabitants of the sea-coast, and Pagans
of the inland country. This division, though not without its degree of
propriety, is vague and imperfect; not only because each description of
people differ considerably among themselves, but that the inland
inhabitants are, in some places, Mahometans, and those of the coast, in
others, what they term Pagans. It is not unusual with persons who have
not resided in this part of the East to call the inhabitants of the
islands indiscriminately by the name of Malays. This is a more
considerable error, and productive of greater confusion than the former.
By attempting to reduce things to heads too general we defeat the very
end we propose to ourselves in defining them at all: we create obscurity
where we wish to throw light. On the other hand, to attempt enumerating
and distinguishing the variety, almost endless, of petty sovereignties
and nations into which this island is divided, many of which differ
nothing in person or manners from their neighbours, would be a task both
insurmountable and useless. I shall aim at steering a middle course, and
accordingly shall treat of the inhabitants of Sumatra under the following
summary distinctions, taking occasion as it may offer to mention the
principal subdivisions. And first it is proper to distinguish the empire
of Menangkabau and the Malays; in the next place the Achinese; then the
Battas; the Rejangs; and next to them the people of Lampong.*

