MALAYS.

They are distinguished from the other inhabitants of this island by the
appellation of Orang Malayo, or Malays, which however they have in common
with those of the coast of the Peninsula and of many other islands; and
the name is applied to every Mussulman speaking the Malayan as his proper
language, and either belonging to, or claiming descent from, the ancient
kingdom of Menangkabau; wherever the place of his residence may be.
Beyond Bencoolen to the southward there are none to be met with excepting
such as have been drawn thither by, and are in the pay of, Europeans. On
the eastern side of the island they are settled at the entrance of almost
all the navigable rivers, where they more conveniently indulge their
habitual bent for trade and piracy. It must be observed indeed that in
common speech the term Malay, like that of Moor in the continent of
India, is almost synonymous with Mahometan; and when the natives of other
parts learn to read the Arabic character, submit to circumcision, and
practise the ceremonies of religion, they are often said men-jadi Malayo,
to become Malays, instead of the more correct expression sudah masuk
Islam, have embraced the faith. The distinction will appear more strongly
from this circumstance, that whilst the sultan of Anak Sungei
(Moco-moco), ambitious of imitating the sultan of Menangkabau, styles
himself and his immediate subjects Malays, his neighbour, the Pangeran of
Sungei Lamo, chief of the Rejangs, a very civilised Mahometan, and whose
ancestors for some generations were of the same faith, seemed offended,
in a conversation I had with him, at my supposing him (as he is usually
considered) a Malay, and replied with some emotion, "Malayo tidah, sir;
orang ulu betul sayo." "No Malay sir; I am a genuine, aboriginal
countryman." The two languages he wrote and talked (I know not if he be
still living) with equal facility; but the Rejang he esteemed his mother
tongue.

Attempts to ascertain from what quarter Sumatra was peopled must rest
upon mere conjecture. The adjacent peninsula (called by Europeans or
other foreigners the Malayan Peninsula) presents the most obvious source
of population; and it has accordingly been presumed that emigrants from
thence supplied it and the other islands of the eastern Archipelago with
inhabitants. By this opinion, adopted without examination, I was likewise
misled and, on a former occasion, spoke of the probability of a colony
from the peninsula having settled upon the western coast of the island;
but I have since learned from the histories and traditions of the natives
of both countries that the reverse is the fact, and that the founders of
the celebrated kingdoms of Johor, Singapura, and Malacca were adventurers
from Sumatra. Even at this day the inhabitants of the interior parts of
the peninsula are a race entirely distinct from those of the two coasts.

