Thus much it was necessary, in order to avoid ambiguity, to say in the
first instance concerning the Malays, of whom a more particular account
will be given in a subsequent part of the work.

As the most dissimilar among the other classes into which I have divided
the inhabitants must of course have very many points of mutual
resemblance, and many of their habits, customs, and ceremonies, in
common, it becomes expedient, in order to avoid a troublesome and useless
repetition, to single out one class from among them whose manners shall
undergo a particular and full investigation, and serve as a standard for
the whole; the deviation from which, in other classes, shall afterwards
be pointed out, and the most singular and striking usages peculiar to
each superadded.

NATION OF THE REJANGS ADOPTED AS A STANDARD OF DESCRIPTION.

Various circumstances induce me on this occasion to give the preference
to the Rejangs, though a nation of but small account in the political
scale of the island. They are placed in what may be esteemed a central
situation, not geographically, but with respect to the encroachments of
foreign manners and opinions introduced by the Malays from the north, and
Javans from the south; which gives them a claim to originality superior
to that of most others. They are a people whose form of government and
whose laws extend with very little variation over a considerable part of
the island, and principally that portion where the connexions of the
English lie. There are traditions of their having formerly sent forth
colonies to the southward; and in the country of Passummah the site of
their villages is still pointed out; which would prove that they have
formerly been of more consideration than they can boast at present. They
have a proper language and a perfect written character. These advantages
point out the Rejang people as an eligible standard of description; and a
motive equally strong that induces me to adopt them as such is that my
situation and connexions in the island led me to a more intimate and
minute acquaintance with their laws and manners than with those of any
other class. I must premise however that the Malay customs having made
their way in a greater or less degree to every part of Sumatra, it will
be totally impossible to discriminate with entire accuracy those which
are original from those which are borrowed; and of course what I shall
say of the Rejangs will apply for the most part not only to the Sumatrans
in general but may sometimes be in strictness proper to the Malays alone,
and by them taught to the higher rank of country people.

