SITUATION OF THE REJANG COUNTRY.

The country of the Rejangs is divided to the north-west from the kingdom
of Anak Sungei (of which Moco-moco is the capital) by the small river of
Uri, near that of Kattaun; which last, with the district of Labun on its
banks, bounds it on the north or inland side. The country of Musi, where
Palembang River takes its rise, forms its limit to the eastward.
Bencoolen River, precisely speaking, confines it on the south-east;
though the inhabitants of the district called Lemba, extending from
thence to Silebar, are entirely the same people in manners and language.
The principal rivers besides those already mentioned are Laye, Pally, and
Sungeilamo; on all of which the English have factories, the resident or
chief being stationed at Laye.

PERSONS OF THE INHABITANTS.

The persons of the inhabitants of the island, though differing
considerably in districts remote from each other, may in general be
comprehended in the following description; excepting the Achinese, whose
commixture with the Moors of the west of India has distinguished them
from the other Sumatrans.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION.

They are rather below the middle stature; their bulk is in proportion;
their limbs are for the most part slight, but well shaped, and
particularly small at the wrists and ankles. Upon the whole they are
gracefully formed, and I scarcely recollect to have ever seen one
deformed person among the natives.*

(*Footnote. Ghirardini, an Italian painter, who touched at Sumatra on his
way to China in 1698 observes of the Malays:
Son di persona ben formata
Quanto mai finger san pittori industri.
He speaks in high terms of the country as being beautifully picturesque.)

The women however have the preposterous custom of flattening the noses,
and compressing the heads of children newly born, whilst the skull is yet
cartilaginous, which increases their natural tendency to that shape. I
could never trace the origin of the practice, or learn any other reason
for moulding the features to this uncouth appearance, but that it was an
improvement of beauty in their estimation. Captain Cook takes notice of a
similar operation at the island of Ulietea. They likewise pull out the
ears of infants to make them stand at an angle from the head. Their eyes
are uniformly dark and clear, and among some, especially the southern
women, bear a strong resemblance to those of the Chinese, in the
peculiarity of formation so generally observed of that people. Their hair
is strong and of a shining black; the improvement of both which qualities
it probably owes in great measure to the early and constant use of
coconut oil, with which they keep it moist. The men frequently cut their
hair short, not appearing to take any pride in it; the women encourage
theirs to a considerable length, and I have known many instances of its
reaching the ground. The men are beardless and have chins so remarkably
smooth that, were it not for the priests displaying a little tuft, we
should be apt to conclude that nature had refused them this token of
manhood. It is the same in respect to other parts of the body with both
sexes; and this particular attention to their persons they esteem a point
of delicacy, and the contrary an unpardonable neglect. The boys as they
approach to the age of puberty rub their chins, upper lips, and those
parts of the body that are subject to superfluous hair with chunam
(quicklime) especially of shells, which destroys the roots of the
incipient beard. The few pilae that afterwards appear are plucked out
from time to time with tweezers, which they always carry about them for
that purpose. Were it not for the numerous and very respectable
authorities from which we are assured that the natives of America are
naturally beardless, I should think that the common opinion on that
subject had been rashly adopted, and that their appearing thus at a
mature age was only the consequence of an early practice, similar to that
observed among the Sumatrans. Even now I must confess that it would
remove some small degree of doubt from my mind could it be ascertained
that no such custom prevails.*

