WOMAN'S DRESS.

The women have a kind of bodice, or short waistcoat rather, that defends
the breasts and reaches to the hips. The kain-sarong, before described,
comes up as high as the armpits, and extends to the feet, being kept on
simply by folding and tucking it over at the breast, except when the
tali-pending, or zone, is worn about the waist, which forms an additional
and necessary security. This is usually of embroidered cloth, and
sometimes a plate of gold or silver, about two inches broad, fastening in
the front with a large clasp of filigree or chased work, with some kind
of precious stone, or imitation of such, in the centre. The baju, or
upper gown, differs little from that of the men, buttoning in the same
manner at the wrists. A piece of fine, thin, cotton cloth, or slight
silk, about five feet long, and worked or fringed at each end, called a
salendang, is thrown across the back of the neck, and hangs down before;
serving also the purpose of a veil to the women of rank when they walk
abroad. The handkerchief is carried either folded small in the hand, or
in a long fold over the shoulder. There are two modes of dressing the
hair, one termed kundei and the other sanggol. The first resembles much
the fashion in which we see the Chinese women represented in paintings,
and which I conclude they borrowed from thence, where the hair is wound
circularly over the centre of the head, and fastened with a silver bodkin
or pin. In the other mode, which is more general, they give the hair a
single twist as it hangs behind, and then doubling it up they pass it
crosswise under a few hairs separated from the rest on the back of the
head for that purpose. A comb, often of tortoise-shell and sometimes
filigreed, helps to prevent it from falling down. The hair of the front
and of all parts of the head is of the same length, and when loose hangs
together behind, with most of the women, in very great quantity. It is
kept moist with oil newly expressed from the coconut; but those persons
who can afford it make use also of an empyreumatic oil extracted from gum
benzoin, as a grateful perfume. They wear no covering except ornaments of
flowers, which on particular occasions are the work of much labour and
ingenuity. The head-dresses of the dancing girls by profession, who are
usually Javans, are very artificially wrought, and as high as any modern
English lady's cap, yielding only to the feathered plumes of the year
1777. It is impossible to describe in words these intricate and fanciful
matters so as to convey a just idea of them. The flowers worn in undress
are for the most part strung in wreaths, and have a very neat and pretty
effect, without any degree of gaudiness, being usually white or pale
yellow, small, and frequently only half-blown. Those generally chosen for
these occasions are the bunga-tanjong and bunga-mellur: the
bunga-chumpaka is used to give the hair a fragrance, but is concealed
from the sight. They sometimes combine a variety of flowers in such a
manner as to appear like one, and fix them on a single stalk; but these,
being more formal, are less elegant than the wreaths.

