At the age of about eight or nine they bore the ears and file the teeth
of the female children; which are ceremonies that must necessarily
precede their marriage. The former they call betende, and the latter
bedabong; and these operations are regarded in the family as the occasion
of a festival. They do not here, as in some of the adjacent islands (of
Nias in particular), increase the aperture of the ear to a monstrous
size, so as in many instances to be large enough to admit the hand, the
lower parts being stretched till they touch the shoulders. Their earrings
are mostly of gold filigree, and fastened not with a clasp, but in the
manner of a rivet or nut screwed to the inner part.


CHAPTER 3.

VILLAGES.
BUILDINGS.
DOMESTIC UTENSILS.
FOOD.

I shall now attempt a description of the villages and buildings of the
Sumatrans, and proceed to their domestic habits of economy, and those
simple arts on which the procuring of their food and other necessaries
depends. These are not among the least interesting objects of
philosophical speculation. In proportion as the arts in use with any
people are connected with the primary demands of nature, they carry the
greater likelihood of originality, because those demands must have been
administered to from a period coeval with the existence of the people
themselves. Or if complete originality be regarded as a visionary idea,
engendered from ignorance and the obscurity of remote events, such arts
must be allowed to have the fairest claim to antiquity at least. Arts of
accommodation, and more especially of luxury, are commonly the effect of
imitation, and suggested by the improvements of other nations which have
made greater advances towards civilisation. These afford less striking
and characteristic features in delineating the picture of mankind, and,
though they may add to the beauty, diminish from the genuineness of the
piece. We must not look for unequivocal generic marks, where the breed,
in order to mend it, has been crossed by a foreign mixture. All the arts
of primary necessity are comprehended within two distinctions: those
which protect us from the inclemency of the weather and other outward
accidents; and those which are employed in securing the means of
subsistence. Both are immediately essential to the continuance of life,
and man is involuntarily and immediately prompted to exercise them by the
urgent calls of nature, even in the merest possible state of savage and
uncultivated existence. In climates like that of Sumatra this impulse
extends not far. The human machine is kept going with small effort in so
favourable a medium. The spring of importunate necessity there soon loses
its force, and consequently the wheels of invention that depend upon it
fail to perform more than a few simple revolutions. In regions less mild
this original motive to industry and ingenuity carries men to greater
lengths in the application of arts to the occasions of life; and these of
course in an equal space of time attain to greater perfection than among
the inhabitants of the tropical latitudes, who find their immediate wants
supplied with facility, and prefer the negative pleasure of inaction to
the enjoyment of any conveniences that are to be purchased with exertion
and labour. This consideration may perhaps tend to reconcile the high
antiquity universally allowed to Asiatic nations, with the limited
progress of arts and sciences among them; in which they are manifestly
surpassed by people who compared with them are but of very recent date.

