(*Footnote. I find that the original inhabitants of the Philippine
Islands covered their buildings in the same manner.)

The mode of ascent to the houses is by a piece of timber or stout bamboo,
cut in notches, which latter an European cannot avail himself of,
especially as the precaution is seldom taken of binding them fast. These
are the wonderful light scaling-ladders which the old Portuguese writers
described to have been used by the people of Achin in their wars with
their nation. It is probable that the apprehension of danger from the
wild beasts caused them to adopt and continue this rude expedient, in
preference to more regular and commodious steps. The detached buildings
in the country, near to their plantations, called talangs, they raise to
the height of ten or twelve feet from the ground, and make a practice of
taking up their ladder at night to secure themselves from the destructive
ravages of the tigers. I have been assured, but do not pledge myself for
the truth of the story, that an elephant, attempting to pass under one of
these houses, which stand on four or six posts, stuck by the way, but,
disdaining to retreat, carried it, with the family it contained, on his
back to a considerable distance.

In the buildings of the dusuns, particularly where the most respectable
families reside, the woodwork in front is carved in the style of
bas-relief, in a variety of uncouth ornaments and grotesque figures, not
much unlike the Egyptian hieroglyphics, but certainly without any mystic
or historical allusion.

FURNITURE.

The furniture of their houses, corresponding with their manner of living,
is very simple, and consists of but few articles. Their bed is a mat,
usually of fine texture, and manufactured for the purpose, with a number
of pillows, worked at the ends and adorned with a shining substance that
resembles foil. A sort of canopy or valance, formed of various coloured
cloths, hangs overhead. Instead of tables they have what resemble large
wooden salvers, with feet called dulang, round each of which three or
four persons dispose themselves; and on these are laid the talams or
brass waiters which hold the cups that contain their curry, and plantain
leaves or matted vessels filled with rice. Their mode of sitting is not
cross-legged, as the inhabitants of Turkey and our tailors use, but
either on the haunches or on the left side, supported by the left hand
with the legs tucked in on the right side; leaving that hand at liberty
which they always, from motives of delicacy, scrupulously eat with; the
left being reserved for less cleanly offices. Neither knives, spoons, nor
any substitutes for them are employed; they take up the rice and other
victuals between the thumb and fingers, and dexterously throw it into the
mouth by the action of the thumb, dipping frequently their hands in water
as they eat.

