Water is conveyed from the spring in bamboos, which for this purpose are
cut, either to the length of five or six feet and carried over the
shoulder, or into a number of single joints that are put together in a
basket. It is drunk out of the fruit called labu here, resembling the
calabash of the West Indies, a hole being made in the side of the neck
and another at top for vent. In drinking they generally hold the vessel
at a distance above their mouths and catch the stream as it falls; the
liquid descending to the stomach without the action of swallowing.
Baskets (bronong, bakul) are a considerable part of the furniture of a
man's house, and the number of these seen hanging up are tokens of the
owner's substance; for in them his harvests of rice or pepper are
gathered and brought home; no carts being employed in the interior parts
of the island which I am now describing. They are made of slips of bamboo
connected by means of split rattans; and are carried chiefly by the
women, on the back, supported by a string or band across the forehead.

FOOD.

Although the Sumatrans live in a great measure upon vegetable food they
are not restrained by any superstitious opinion from other aliments, and
accordingly at their entertainments the flesh of the buffalo (karbau),
goat, and fowls, are served up. Their dishes are almost all prepared in
that mode of dressing to which we have given the name of curry (from a
Hindostanic word), and which is now universally known in Europe. It is
called in the Malay language gulei, and may be composed of any kind of
edible, but is generally of flesh or fowl, with a variety of pulse and
succulent herbage, stewed down with certain ingredients, by us termed,
when mixed and ground together, curry powder. These ingredients are,
among others, the cayenne or chili-pepper, turmeric, sarei or
lemon-grass, cardamums, garlick, and the pulp of the coconut bruised to a
milk resembling that of almonds, which is the only liquid made use of.
This differs from the curries of Madras and Bengal, which have greater
variety of spices, and want the coconut. It is not a little remarkable
that the common pepper, the chief produce and staple commodity of the
country, is never mixed by the natives in their food. They esteem it
heating to the blood, and ascribe a contrary effect to the cayenne; which
I can say, my own experience justifies. A great diversity of curries is
usually served up at the same time, in small vessels, each flavoured to a
nice discerning taste in a different manner; and in this consists all the
luxury of their tables. Let their quantity or variety or meat be what it
may, the principle article of their food is rice, which is eaten in a
large proportion with every dish, and very frequently without any other
accompaniment than salt and chili-pepper. It is prepared by boiling in a
manner peculiar to India; its perfection, next to cleanness and
whiteness, consisting in its being, when thoroughly dressed and soft to
the heart, at the same time whole and separate, so that no two grains
shall adhere together. The manner of effecting this is by putting into
the earthen or other vessel in which it is boiled a quantity of water
sufficient to cover it, letting it simmer over a slow fire, taking off
the water by degrees with a flat ladle or spoon that the grain may dry,
and removing it when just short of burning. At their entertainments the
guests are treated with rice prepared also in a variety of modes, by
frying it in cakes or boiling a particular species of it mixed with the
kernel of the coconut and fresh oil, in small joints of bamboo. This is
called lemmang. Before it is served up they cut off the outer rind of the
bamboo and the soft inner coat is peeled away by the person who eats.

