When the natives kill a buffalo, which is always done at their public
meetings, they do not cut it up into joints as we do an ox, but into
small pieces of flesh, or steaks, which they call bantei. The hide of the
buffalo is sometimes scalded, scraped, and hung up to dry in their houses
where it shrivels and becomes perfectly hard. When wanted for use a piece
is chopped off and, being stewed down for a great number of hours in a
small quantity of water, forms a rich jelly which, properly seasoned, is
esteemed a very delicate dish.

The sago (sagu), though common on Sumatra and used occasionally by the
natives, is not an article of food of such general use among them as with
the inhabitants of many other eastern islands, where it is employed as a
substitute for rice. Millet (randa jawa) is also cultivated for food, but
not in any considerable quantity.

When these several articles of subsistence fail the Sumatran has recourse
to those wild roots, herbs, and leaves of trees which the woods
abundantly afford in every season without culture, and which the habitual
simplicity of his diet teaches him to consider as no very extraordinary
circumstance of hardship. Hence it is that famines in this island or,
more properly speaking, failures of crops of grain, are never attended
with those dreadful consequences which more improved countries and more
provident nations experience.


CHAPTER 4.

AGRICULTURE.
RICE, ITS CULTIVATION, ETC.
PLANTATIONS OF COCONUT, BETEL-NUT, AND OTHER VEGETABLES FOR DOMESTIC USE.
DYE STUFFS.

AGRICULTURE.

From their domestic economy I am led to take a view of their labours in
the field, their plantations and the state of agriculture amongst them,
which an ingenious writer esteems the justest criterion of civilisation.

RICE.

The most important article of cultivation, not in Sumatra alone but
throughout the East, is rice. It is the grand material of food on which a
hundred millions of the inhabitants of the earth subsist, and although
chiefly confined by nature to the regions included between and bordering
on the tropics, its cultivation is probably more extensive than that of
wheat, which the Europeans are wont to consider as the universal staff of
life. In the continent of Asia, as you advance to the northward, you come
to the boundary where the plantations of rice disappear and the
wheatfields commence; the cold felt in that climate, owing in part to the
height of the land, being unfriendly to the production of the former
article.

