UPLAND RICE.

For the cultivation of upland padi the site of woods is universally
preferred, and the more ancient the woods the better, on account of the
superior richness of the soil; the continual fall and rotting of the
leaves forming there a bed of vegetable mould, which the open plains do
not afford, being exhausted by the powerful operation of the sun's rays
and the constant production of a rank grass called lalang. When this
grass, common to all the eastern islands, is kept under by frequent
mowing or the grazing of cattle (as is the case near the European
settlements) its room is supplied by grass of a finer texture. Many
suppose that the same identical species of vegetable undergoes this
alteration, as no fresh seeds are sown and the substitution uniformly
takes place. But this is an evident mistake as the generic characters of
the two are essentially different; the one being the Gramen caricosum and
the other the Gramen aciculatum described by Rumphius. The former, which
grows to the height of five feet, is remarkable for the whiteness and
softness of the down or blossom, and the other for the sharpness of its
bearded seeds, which prove extremely troublesome to the legs of those who
walk among it.*

(*Footnote. Gramen hoc (caricosum) totos occupat campos, nudosque colles
tam dense et laete germinans, ut e longinquo haberetur campus oryza
consitus, tam luxuriose ac fortiter crescit, ut neque hortos neque sylvas
evitet, atque tam vehementer prorepit, ut areae vix depurari ac servari
possint, licet quotidie deambulentur...Potissimum amat solum flavum
arguillosum. (Gramen aciculatum) Usus ejus fere nullus est, sed hic
detegendum est taediosum ludibrium, quod quis habet, si quis per campos
vel in sylvis procedat, ubi hoc gramen ad vias publicas crescit, quum
praetereuntium vestibus, hoc semen quam maxime inhaeret. Rumphius volume
6 book 10 chapters 8 and 13. M. Poivre describes the plains of Madagascar
and Java as covered with a long grass which he calls fatak, and which,
from the analogy of the countries in other respects, I should suppose to
be the lalang; but he praises it as affording excellent pasturage;
whereas in Sumatra it is reckoned the worst, and except when very young
it is not edible by the largest cattle; for which reason the carters and
drovers are in the practice of setting fire to that which grows on the
plains by the roadside, that the young shoots which thereupon shoot up,
may afterwards supply food to their buffaloes.)

