If old woods are not at hand ground covered with that of younger growth,
termed balukar, is resorted to; but not, if possible, under the age of
four or five years. Vegetation is there so strong that spots which had
been perfectly cleared for cultivation will, upon being neglected for a
single season, afford shelter to the beasts of the forest; and the same
being rarely occupied for two successive years, the face of the country
continues to exhibit the same wild appearance, although very extensive
tracts are annually covered with fresh plantations. From this it will be
seen that, in consequence of the fertility to which it gives occasion,
the abundance of wood in the country is not considered by the inhabitants
as an inconvenience but the contrary. Indeed I have heard a native prince
complain of a settlement made by some persons of a distant tribe in the
inland part of his dominions, whom he should be obliged to expel from
thence in order to prevent the waste of his old woods. This seemed a
superfluous act of precaution in an island which strikes the eye as one
general, impervious, and inexhaustible forest.

MODE OF CLEARING THE GROUND.

On the approach of the dry monsoon (April and May) or in the course of
it, the husbandman makes choice of a spot for his ladang, or plantation
of upland rice, for that season, and marks it out. Here it must be
observed that property in land depends upon occupancy, unless where
fruit-bearing trees have been planted, and, as there is seldom any
determined boundary between the lands of neighbouring villages, such
marks are rarely disturbed. Collecting his family and dependents, he next
proceeds to clear the ground. This is an undertaking of immense labour,
and would seem to require herculean force, but it is effected by skill
and perseverance. The work divides itself into two parts. The first
(called tebbas, menebbas) consists in cutting down the brushwood and rank
vegetables, which are suffered to dry during an interval of a fortnight,
or more or less, according to the fairness of the weather, before they
proceed to the second operation (called tebbang, menebbang) of felling
the large trees. Their tools, the prang and billiong (the former
resembling a bill-hook, and the latter an imperfect adze) are seemingly
inadequate to the task, and the saw is unknown in the country. Being
regardless of the timber they do not fell the tree near the ground, where
the stem is thick, but erect a stage and begin to hew, or chop rather, at
the height of ten or twelve, to twenty or thirty feet, where the
dimensions are smaller (and sometimes much higher, taking off little more
than the head) until it is sufficiently weakened to admit of their
pulling it down with rattans made fast to the branches instead of ropes.*
And thus by slow degrees the whole is laid low.

