(*Footnote. A similar mode of felling is described in the Maison rustique
de Cayenne.)

In some places however a more summary process is attempted. It may be
conceived that in the woods the cutting down trees singly is a matter of
much difficulty on account of the twining plants which spread from one to
the other and connect them strongly together. To surmount this it is not
an uncommon practice to cut a number of trees half through, on the same
side, and then fix upon one of great bulk at the extremity of the space
marked out, which they cut nearly through, and, having disengaged it from
these lianas (as they are termed in the western world) determine its fall
in such a direction as may produce the effect of its bearing down by its
prodigious weight all those trees which had been previously weakened for
the purpose. By this much time and labour are saved, and, the object
being to destroy and not to save the timber, the rending or otherwise
spoiling the stems is of no moment. I could never behold this devastation
without a strong sentiment of regret. Perhaps the prejudices of a
classical education taught me to respect those aged trees as the
habitation or material frame of an order of sylvan deities, who were now
deprived of existence by the sacrilegious hand of a rude,
undistinguishing savage. But without having recourse to superstition it
is not difficult to account for such feelings on the sight of a venerable
wood, old, to appearance, as the soil it stood on, and beautiful beyond
what pencil can describe, annihilated for the temporary use of the space
it occupied. It seemed a violation of nature in the too arbitrary
exercise of power. The timber, from its abundance, the smallness of
consumption, and its distance in most cases from the banks of navigable
rivers, by which means alone it could be transported to any distance, is
of no value; and trees whose bulk, height, straightness of stem, and
extent of limbs excite the admiration of a traveller, perish
indiscriminately. Some of the branches are lopped off, and when these,
together with the underwood, are become sufficiently arid, they are set
fire to, and the country, for the space of a month or two, is in a
general blaze and smoke, until the whole is consumed and the ground
effectually cleared. The expiring wood, beneficent to its ungrateful
destroyer, fertilises for his use by its ashes and their salts the earth
which it so long adorned.

