Unseasonable wet weather at this period, which sometimes happens, and
especially when the business is deferred till the close of the dry or
south-east monsoon, whose termination is at best irregular, produces much
inconvenience by the delay of burning till the vegetation has had time to
renew itself; in which case the spot is commonly abandoned, or, if
partially burned, it is not without considerable toil that it can be
afterwards prepared for sowing. On such occasions there are imposters
ready to make a profit of the credulity of the husbandman who, like all
others whose employments expose them to risks, are prone to superstition,
by pretending to a power of causing or retarding rain. One of these will
receive, at the time of burning the ladangs, a dollar or more from each
family in the neighbourhood, under the pretence of ensuring favourable
weather for their undertaking. To accomplish this purpose he abstains, or
pretends to abstain, for many days and nights from food and sleep, and
performs various trifling ceremonies; continuing all the time in the open
air. If he espies a cloud gathering he immediately begins to smoke
tobacco with great vehemence, walking about with a quick pace and
throwing the puffs towards it with all the force of his lungs. How far he
is successful it is no difficult matter to judge. His skill, in fact,
lies in choosing his time, when there is the greatest prospect of the
continuance of fair weather in the ordinary course of nature: but should
he fail there is an effectual salvo. He always promises to fulfil his
agreement with a Deo volente clause, and so attributes his occasional
disappointments to the particular interposition of the deity. The cunning
men who, in this and many other instances of conjuration, impose on the
simple country people, are always Malayan adventurers, and not
unfrequently priests. The planter whose labour has been lost by such
interruptions generally finds it too late in the season to begin on
another ladang, and the ordinary resource for subsisting himself and
family is to seek a spot of sawah ground, whose cultivation is less
dependent upon accidental variations of weather. In some districts much
confusion in regard to the period of sowing is said to have arisen from a
very extraordinary cause. Anciently, say the natives, it was regulated by
the stars, and particularly by the appearance (heliacal rising) of the
bintang baniak or Pleiades; but after the introduction of the Mahometan
religion they were induced to follow the returns of the puisa or great
annual fast, and forgot their old rules. The consequence of this was
obvious, for the lunar year of the hejrah being eleven days short of the
sidereal or solar year the order of the seasons was soon inverted; and it
is only astonishing that its inaptness to the purposes of agriculture
should not have been immediately discovered.

