TRANSPLANTATION.

Whilst the sawahs have been thus in preparation to receive the padi a
small, adjacent, and convenient spot of good soil has been chosen, in
which the seed-grain is sown as thick as it can well lie to the ground,
and is then often covered with layers of lalang (long grass, instead of
straw) to protect the grain from the birds, and perhaps assist the
vegetation. When it has grown to the height of from five to eight inches,
or generally at the end of forty days from the time of sowing, it is
taken up in showery weather and transplanted to the sawah, where holes
are made four or five inches asunder to receive the plants. If they
appear too forward the tops are cropped off. A supply is at the same time
reserved in the seed-plots to replace such as may chance to fail upon
removal. These plantations, in the same manner as the ladangs, it is
necessary to cleanse from weeds at least twice in the first two or three
months; but no maize or other seed is sown among the crop. When the padi
begins to form the ear or to blossom, as the natives express it, the
water is finally drawn off, and at the expiration of four months from the
time of transplanting it arrives at maturity. The manner of guarding
against the birds is similar to what has been already described; but the
low ground crop has a peculiar and very destructive enemy in the rats,
which sometimes consume the whole of it, especially when the plantation
has been made somewhat out of season; to obviate which evil the
inhabitants of a district sow by agreement pretty nearly at the same
time; whereby the damage is less perceptible. In the mode of reaping
likewise there is nothing different. Upon the conclusion of the harvest
it is an indispensable duty to summon the neighbouring priests to the
first meal that is made of the new rice, when an entertainment is given
according to the circumstances of the family. Should this ceremony be
omitted the crop would be accursed (haram) nor could the whole household
expect to outlive the season. This superstition has been by the
Mahometans judiciously engrafted on the stock of credulity in the country
people.

