The same spot of low ground is for the most part used without regular
intermission for several successive years, the degree of culture they
bestow by turning up the soil and the overflowing water preserving its
fertility. They are not however insensible to the advantage of occasional
fallows. In consequence of this continued use the value of the sawah
grounds differs from that of ladangs, the former being, in the
neighbourhood of populous towns particularly, distinct property, and of
regularly ascertained value. At Natal for example those consisting
between one and two acres sell for sixteen to twenty Spanish dollars. In
the interior country, where the temperature of the air is more favourable
to agriculture, they are said to sow the same spot with ladang rice for
three successive years; and there also it is common to sow onions as soon
as the stubble is burned off. Millet (randa jawa) is sown at the same
time with the padi. In the country of Manna, southward of Bencoolen, a
progress in the art of cultivation is discovered, superior to what
appears in almost any other part of the island; the Batta country perhaps
alone excepted. Here may be seen pieces of land in size from five to
fifteen acres, regularly ploughed and harrowed. The difference is thus
accounted for. It is the most populous district in that southern part,
with the smallest extent of sea-coast. The pepper plantations and ladangs
together having in a great measure exhausted the old woods in the
accessible parts of the country, and the inhabitants being therein
deprived of a source of fertility which nature formerly supplied, they
must either starve, remove to another district, or improve by cultivation
the spot where they reside. The first is contrary to the inherent
principle that teaches man to preserve life by every possible means:
their attachment to their native soil, or rather their veneration for the
sepulchres of their ancestors, is so strong that to remove would cost
them a struggle almost equal to the pangs of death: necessity therefore,
the parent of art and industry, compels them to cultivate the earth.

