(*Footnote. In an address from the Bath Agricultural Society dated 12th
October 1795 it is strongly recommended to the cultivators of land (on
account of the then existing scarcity of grain) to adopt the method of
dibbling wheat. The holes to be made either by the common dibble, or with
an implement having four or more points in a frame, at the distance of
about four inches every way, and to the depth of an inch and a half;
dropping TWO grains into every hole. The man who dibbles is to move
backwards and to be followed by two or three women or children, who drop
in the grains. A bush-hurdle, drawn across the furrows by a single horse,
finishes the business. About six pecks of seed-wheat per acre are saved
by this method. The expense of dibbling, dropping, and covering is
reckoned in Norfolk at about six shillings per acre. Times Newspaper of
20th October 1795.)

FERTILITY OF SOIL.

Notwithstanding the received opinion of the fertility of what are called
the Malay Islands, countenanced by the authority of M. Poivre and other
celebrated writers, and still more by the extraordinary produce of grain,
as above stated, I cannot help saying that I think the soil of the
western coast of Sumatra is in general rather sterile than rich. It is
for the most part a stiff red clay, burned nearly to the state of a brick
where it is exposed to the influence of the sun. The small proportion of
the whole that is cultivated is either ground from which old woods have
been recently cleared, whose leaves had formed a bed of vegetable earth
some inches deep, or else ravines into which the scanty mould of the
adjoining hills has been washed by the annual torrents of rain. It is
true that in many parts of the coast there are, between the cliffs and
the sea-beach, plains varying in breadth and extent of a sandy soil,
probably left by the sea and more or less mixed with earth in proportion
to the time they have remained uncovered by the waters; and such are
found to prove the most favourable spots for raising the productions of
other parts of the world. But these are partial and insufficient proofs
of fertility. Every person who has attempted to make a garden of any kind
nor Fort Marlborough must well know how ineffectual a labour it would
prove to turn up with the spade a piece of ground adopted at random. It
becomes necessary for this purpose to form an artificial soil of dung,
ashes, rubbish, and such other materials as can be procured. From these
alone he can expect to raise the smallest supply of vegetables for the
table. I have seen many extensive plantations of coconut, pinang, lime,
and coffee-trees, laid out at a considerable expense by different
gentlemen, and not one do I recollect to have succeeded; owing as it
would seem to the barrenness of the soil, although covered with long
grass. These disappointments have induced the Europeans almost entirely
to neglect agriculture. The more industrious Chinese colonists, who work
the ground with indefatigable pains, and lose no opportunity of saving
and collecting manure, are rather more successful; yet have I heard one
of the most able cultivators among this people, who, by the dint of
labour and perseverance, had raised what then appeared to me a delightful
garden, designed for profit as well as pleasure, declare that his heart
was almost broken in struggling against nature; the soil being so
ungrateful that, instead of obtaining an adequate return for his trouble
and expense, the undertaking was likely to render him a bankrupt; and
which he would inevitably have been but for assistance afforded him by
the East India Company.*

