This tree in all its species, stages, fructification, and appropriate
uses has been so elaborately and justly described by many writers,
especially the celebrated Rumphius in his Herbarium Amboinense, and Van
Rheede in his Hortus Malabaricus, that to attempt it here would be an
unnecessary repetition, and I shall only add a few local observations on
its growth. Every dusun is surrounded with a number of fruit-bearing
trees, and especially the coconut where the soil and temperature will
allow them to grow, and, near the bazaars or sea-port towns, where the
concourse of inhabitants is in general much greater than in the country,
there are always large plantations of them to supply the extraordinary
demand. The tree thrives best in a low, sandy soil, near the sea, where
it will produce fruit in four or five years; whilst in the clayey ground
it seldom bears in less than seven to ten years. As you recede from the
coast the growth is proportionably slower, owing to the greater degree of
cold among the hills; and it must attain there nearly its full height
before it is productive, whereas in the plains a child can generally
reach its first fruit from the ground. Here, said a countryman at Laye,
if I plant a coconut or durian-tree I may expect to reap the fruit of it;
but in Labun (an inland district) I should only plant for my
great-grandchildren. In some parts where the land is particularly high,
neither these, the betel-nut, nor pepper-vines, will produce fruit at
all.

It has been remarked by some writer that the date-bearing palm-tree and
the coconut are never found to flourish in the same country. However this
may hold good as a general assertion it is a fact that not one tree of
that species is known to grow in Sumatra, where the latter, and many
others of the palm kind, so much abound. All the small low islands which
lie off the western coast are skirted near the sea-beach so thickly with
coconut-trees that their branches touch each other, whilst the interior
parts, though not on a higher level, are entirely free from them. This
beyond a doubt is occasioned by the accidental floating of the nuts to
the shore, where they are planted by the hand of nature, shoot up, and
bear fruit; which, falling when it arrives at maturity, causes a
successive reproduction. Where uninhabited, as is the case with Pulo
Mego, one of the southernmost, the nuts become a prey to the rats and
squirrels unless when occasionally disturbed by the crews of vessels
which go thither to collect cargoes for market on the mainland. In the
same manner, as we are told by Flacourt,* they have been thrown upon a
coast of Madagascar and are not there indigenous; as I have been also
assured by a native. Yet it appears that the natives call it voaniou,
which is precisely the name by which it is familiarly known in Sumatra,
being buah-nior; and v being uniformly substituted for b, and f for p, in
the numerous Malayan words occurring in the language of the former
island. On the other hand the singular production to which the
appellation of sea-coconut (kalapa laut) has been given, and which is
known to be the fruit of a species of borassus growing in one of the
Seychelles Islands,** not far from Madagascar, are sometimes floated as
far as the Malayan coasts, where they are supposed to be natives of the
ocean and were held in high veneration for their miraculous effects in
medicine until, about the year 1772, a large cargo of them was brought to
Bencoolen by a French vessel, when their character soon fell with their
price.

