SAGO.

The rambiya, puhn sagu, or proper sago tree, is also of the palm kind.
Its trunk contains a farinaceous and glutinous pith that, being soaked,
dried, and granulated, becomes the sago of our shops, and has been too
frequently and accurately described (by Rumphius in particular, Volume 1
chapters 17 and 18, and by M. Poivre) to need a repetition here.

NIBONG.

The nibong (Caryota urens), another species of palm, grows wild in such
abundance as not to need cultivation. The stem is tall, slender, and
straight, and, being of a hard texture on the outer part, it is much used
for posts in building the slight houses of the country, as well as for
paling of a stronger kind than the bamboo usually employed. Withinside it
is fibrous and soft and, when hollowed out, being of the nature of a
pipe, is well adapted to the purpose of gutters or channels to convey
water. The cabbage, as it is termed, or pith at the head of the tree (the
germ of the foliage) is eaten as a delicacy, and preferred to that of the
coconut.

NIPAH.

The nipah (Cocos nypa, Lour.) a low species of palm, is chiefly valuable
for its leaves, which are much used as thatch for the roofs of houses.
The pulpy kernels of the fruit (called buah atap) are preserved as a
sweetmeat, but are entirely without flavour.

CYCAS.

The paku bindu (Cycas circinalis) has the general appearance of a young,
or rather dwarf coconut-tree, and like that and the nibong produces a
cabbage that is much esteemed as a culinary vegetable. The tender shoots
are likewise eaten. The stem is short and knobby, the lower part of each
branch (if branches they may be called) prickly, and the blossom yellow.
The term paku, applied to it by the Malays, shows that they consider it
as partaking of the nature of the fern (filix) and Rumphius, who names it
Sayor calappa and Olus calappoides, describes it as an arborescent
species of osmunda. It is well depicted in Volume 1 table 22.

MAIZE.

The maize or turkey-corn (Zea mays), called jagong, though very generally
sown, is not cultivated in quantities as an article of food, excepting in
the Batta country. The ears are plucked whilst green, and, being slightly
roasted on the embers, are eaten as a delicacy. Chili or cayenne pepper
(capsicum), called improperly lada panjang or long pepper, and also lada
merah, red pepper, which, in preference to the common or black pepper, is
used in their curries and with almost every article of their food, always
finds a place in their irregular and inartificial gardens. To these
indeed their attention is very little directed, in consequence of the
liberality with which nature, unsolicited, supplies their wants. Turmeric
(curcuma) is a root of general use. Of this there are two kinds, the one
called kunyit merah, an indispensable ingredient in their curries,
pilaws, and sundry dishes; the other, kunyit tummu (a variety with
coloured leaves and a black streak running along the midrib) is esteemed
a good yellow dye, and is sometimes employed in medicine. Ginger (Amomum
zinziber) is planted in small quantities. Of this also there are two
kinds, alia jai (Zinziber majus) and alia padas (Zinziber minus),
familiarly called se-pade or se-pudde, from a word signifying that
pungent acrid taste in spices which we express by the vague term hot. The
tummu (Costus arabicus) and lampuyang (Amomum zerumbet) are found both in
the wild and cultivated state, being used medicinally; as is also the
galangale (Kaempferia galanga). The coriander, called katumbar, and the
cardamum, puah lako, grow in abundance. Of the puah (amomum) they reckon
many species, the most common of which has very large leaves, resembling
those of the plantain and possessing an aromatic flavour not unlike that
of the bay tree. The jintan or cumin-seed (cuminum) is sometimes an
ingredient in curries. Of the morunggei or kelor (Guilandina moringa L.
Hyperanthera moringa Wilden.), a tall shrub with pinnated leaves, the
root has the appearance, flavour, and pungency of the horse-radish, and
the long pods are dressed as a culinary vegetable; as are also the young
shoots of the pringgi (Cucurbita pepo) various sorts of the lapang or
cucumber, and of the lobak or radish. The inei or henna of the Arabians
(Lawsonia inermis) is a shrub with small light-green leaves, yielding an
expressed juice with which the natives tinge the nails of their hands and
feet. Ampalas (Delima sarmentosa and Ficus ampelos) is a shrub whose
blossom resembles that of our hawthorn in appearance and smell. Its leaf
has an extraordinary roughness, on which account it is employed to give
the last fine polish to carvings in wood ivory, particularly the handles
and sheaths of their krises, on which they bestow much labour. The leaf
of the sipit also, a climbing species of fig, having the same quality, is
put to the same use. Ganja or hemp (cannabis) is extensively cultivated,
not for the purpose of making rope, to which they never apply it, but to
make an intoxicating preparation called bang, which they smoke in pipes
along with tobacco. In other parts of India a drink is prepared by
bruising the blossoms, young leaves, and tender parts of the stalk. Small
plantations of tobacco, which the natives call tambaku, are met with in
every part of the country. The leaves are cut whilst green into fine
shreds, and afterwards dried in the sun. The species is the same as the
Virginian, and, were the quantity increased and people more expert in the
method of curing it, a manufacture and trade of considerable importance
might be established.

