PULAS TWINE.

The kaluwi is a species of urtica or nettle of which excellent twine
called pulas is made. It grows to the height of about four feet, has a
stem imperfectly ligneous, without branches. When cut down, dried, and
beaten, the rind is stripped off and then twisted as we do the hemp. It
affords me great satisfaction to learn that the manufacture of rope from
this useful plant has lately attracted the attention of the Company's
Government, and that a considerable nursery of the kaluwi has been
established in the Botanic Garden at Calcutta, under the zealous and
active management of Dr. Roxburgh, who expresses his opinion that so soon
as a method shall be discovered of removing a viscid matter found to
adhere to the fibres the kaluwi hemp, or pulas, will supersede every
other material. The bagu-tree (Gnetum gnemon, L.) abounds on the southern
coast of the island, where its bark is beaten, like hemp, and the twine
manufactured from it is employed in the construction of large fishing
nets. The young leaves of the tree are dressed in curries. In the island
of Nias they make a twine of the baru-tree (Hibiscus tiliaceus), which is
afterwards woven into a coarse cloth for bags. From the pisang (musa) a
kind of sewing-thread is procured by stripping filaments from the midribs
of the leaves, as well as from the stem. In some places this thread is
worked in the loom. The kratau, a dwarf species of mulberry (morus,
foliis profunde incisis) is planted for the food of the silkworms, which
they rear, but not to any great extent, and the raw silk produced from
them seems of but an indifferent quality. The samples I have seen were
white instead of yellow, in large, flat cakes, which would require much
trouble to wind off, and the filaments appeared coarse; but this may be
partly occasioned by the method of loosening them from the bags, which is
by steeping them in hot water. Jarak (ricinus and Palma christi), from
whence the castor oil is extracted, grows wild in abundance: especially
near the sea-shore. Bijin (Sesamum indicum) is sown extensively in the
interior districts for the oil it produces, which is there used for
burning in place of the coconut-oil so common near the coast.

