ELASTIC GUM.

In the description of the Urceola elastica, or caout-chouc-vine, of
Sumatra and Pulo Pinang, by Dr. W. Roxburgh, in the Asiatic Researches
Volume 5 page 167, he says, "For the discovery of this useful vine we
are, I believe, indebted to Mr. Howison, late surgeon at Pulo Pinang; but
it would appear he had no opportunity of determining its botanical
character. To Dr. Charles Campbell of Fort Marlborough we owe the
gratification arising from a knowledge thereof. About twelve months ago I
received from that gentleman, by means of Mr. Fleming, very complete
specimens, in full foliage, flower, and fruit. From these I was enabled
to reduce it to its class and order in the Linnean system. It forms new
genus immediately after tabernaemontana, and consequently belongs to the
class called contortae. One of the qualities of the plants of this order
is their yielding, on being cut, a juice which is generally milky, and
for the most part deemed of a poisonous nature." Of another plant,
producing a similar substance, I received the following information from
Mr. Campbell, in a letter dated in November, 1803: "You may remember a
trailing plant with a small yellowish flower and a seed vessel of an
oblong form, containing one seed; the whole plant resembling much the
caout-chouc. To this, finding it wholly nondescript, I have taken the
liberty to attach your name. It has no relationship to a genus yielding a
similar substance, of which I sent a specimen to Dr. Roxburgh at Bengal,
who published an account of it under the name of urceola. It is called
jintan by the Malays, and of its three species I have accurately
ascertained two, the jintan itam and jintan burong, the latter very rare.
Its leaves are of a deep glossy green, and the flowers lightly tinged
with a pale yellow; it belongs to the tetrandria, and is a handsome
plant--but more of this with the drawing." Unfortunately however neither
this drawing nor any part of his valuable collection of materials for
improving the natural history of that interesting country, which he
bequeathed to me by his will, have yet reached my hands.

