GUM.

Mr. Charles Miller observed in the country near Bencoolen a gum exuding
spontaneously from the paty tree, which appeared very much to resemble
the gum-arabic; and, as they belong to the same genus of plants, he
thought it not improbable that this gum might be used for the same
purposes. In the list of new species by F. Norona (Batavian Transactions
Volume 5) he gives to the pete of Java the name of Acacia gigantea; which
I presume to be the same plant.

PULSE.

Kachang is a term applied to all sorts of pulse, of which a great variety
is cultivated; as the kachang china (Dolichos sinensis), kachang putih
(Dolichos katjang), k. ka-karah (D. lignosus), k. kechil (Phaseolus
radiatus), k. ka-karah gatal (Dolichos pruriens) and many others. The
kachang tanah (Arachis hypogaea) is of a different class, being the
granulose roots (or, according to some, the self-buried pods) of a herb
with a yellow, papilionaceous flower, the leaves of which have some
resemblance to the clover, but double only, and, like it, affords rice
pasture for cattle. The seeds are always eaten fried or parched, from
whence they obtain their common appellation of kachang goring.

YAMS.

The variety of roots of the yam and potato kind, under the general name
of ubi, is almost endless; the dioscorea being generally termed ubi
kechil (small), and the convolvulus ubi gadang (large); some of which
latter, of the sort called at Bencoolen the China-yam, weigh as much as
forty pounds, and are distinguished into the white and the purple. The
fruit of the trong (melongena), of which the egg-plant is one species, is
much eaten by the natives, split and fried. They are commonly known by
the name of brinjals, from the beringelhas of the Portuguese.

DYE-STUFFS.


(PLATE 8. Marsdenia tinctoria, OR BROAD-LEAFED INDIGO.
E.W. Marsden delt. Swaine fct.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


INDIGO.

Tarum or indigo (Indigofera tinctoria) being the principal dye-stuff they
employ, the shrub is always found in their planted spots; but they do not
manufacture it into a solid substance, as is the practice elsewhere. The
stalks and branches having lain for some days in water to soak and
macerate, they then boil it, and work among it with their hands a small
quantity of chunam (quick lime, from shells), with leaves of the paku
sabba (a species of fern) for fixing the colour. It is afterwards drained
off, and made use of in the liquid state.

