There is another kind of indigo, called in Sumatra tarum akar, which
appears to be peculiar to that country, and was totally unknown to
botanists to whom I showed the leaves upon my return to England in the
beginning of the year 1780. The common kind is known to have small
pinnated leaves growing on stalks imperfectly ligneous. This, on the
contrary, is a vine, or climbing plant, with leaves from three to five
inches in length, thin, of a dark green, and in the dried state
discoloured with blue stains. It yields the same dye as the former sort;
they are prepared also in the same manner, and used indiscriminately, no
preference being given to the one above the other, as the natives
informed me, excepting inasmuch as the tarum akar, by reason of the
largeness of the foliage, yields a greater proportion of sediment.
Conceiving it might prove a valuable plant in our colonies, and that it
was of importance in the first instance that its identity and class
should be accurately ascertained, I procured specimens of its
fructification, and deposited them in the rich and extensively useful
collection of my friend Sir Joseph Banks. In a paper on the Asclepiadeae,
highly interesting to botanical science, communicated by Mr. Robert Brown
(who has lately explored the vegetable productions of New Holland and
other parts of the East) to the Wernerian Society of Edinburgh, and
printed in their Transactions, he has done me the honour of naming the
genus to which this plant belongs, MARSDENIA, and this particular species
Marsdenia tinctoria.*

(*Footnote. 2. M. caule volubili, foliis cordatis ovato-oblongis
acuminatis glabriusculis basi antice glandulosis, thyrsis lateralibus,
fauce barbata. Tarram akkar Marsd. Sumat. page 78 edition 2 Hab. In
insula Sumatra. (v.s. in Herb. Banks.))

KASUMBA.

Under the name of kasumba are included two plants yielding materials for
dyeing, but very different from each other. The kasumba (simply) or
kasumba jawa, as it is sometimes called, is the Carthamus tinctorius, of
which the flowers are used to produce a saffron colour, as the name
imports. The kasumba kling or galuga is the Bixa orellana, or arnotto of
the West Indies. Of this the capsule, about an inch in length, is covered
with soft prickles or hair, opens like a bivalve shell, and contains in
its cavities a dozen or more seeds, the size of grape-stones, thickly
covered with a reddish farina, which is the part that constitutes the
dye.

