Sapang, the Brazil-wood, (Caesalpinia sappan), whether indigenous or not,
is common in the Malayan countries. The heart of this being cut into
chips, steeped for a considerable time in water, and then boiled, is used
for dying here, as in other countries. The cloth or thread is repeatedly
dipped in this liquid, and hung to dry between each wetting till it is
brought to the shade required. To fix the colour alum is added in the
boiling.

Of the tree called bangkudu in some districts, and in others mangkudu
(Morinda umbellata) the outward parts of the root, being dried, pounded,
and boiled in water, afford a red dye, for fixing which the ashes
procured from the stalks of the fruit and midribs of the leaves of the
coconut are employed. Sometimes the bark or wood of the sapang tree is
mixed with these roots. It is to be observed that another species of
bangkudu,
with broader leaves (Morinda citrifolia) does not yield any colouring
matter, but is, as I apprehend, the tree commonly planted in the Malayan
peninsula and in Pulo Pinang as a support to the pepper-vine.

RED-WOOD.

Ubar is a red-wood resembling the logwood (haematoxylon) of Honduras, and
might probably be employed for the same purpose. It is used by the
natives in tanning twine for fishing nets, and appears to be the okir or
Tanarius major of Rumphius, Volume 3 page 192, and Jambolifera rezinoso
of Lour. Fl. C. C. page 231. Their black dye is commonly made from the
coats of the mangostin-fruit and of the kataping (Terminalia catappa).
With this the blue cloth from the west of India is changed to a black, as
usually worn by the Malays of Menangkabau. It is said to be steeped in
mud in order to fix the colour.

The roots of the chapada or champadak (Artocarpus integrifolia) cut into
chips and boiled in water produce a yellow dye. To strengthen the tint a
little turmeric (the kunyit tumma or variety of curcuma already spoken
of) is mixed with it, and alum to fix it; but as the yellow does not hold
well it is necessary that the operation of steeping and drying should be
frequently repeated.

