
CHAPTER 5.

FRUITS, FLOWERS, MEDICINAL SHRUBS AND HERBS.

FRUITS.

Nature, says a celebrated writer,* seems to have taken a pleasure in
assembling in the Malayan countries her most favourite productions; and
with truth I think it may be affirmed that no region of the earth can
boast an equal abundance and variety of indigenous fruits; for although
the whole of those hereafter enumerated cannot be considered as such, yet
there is reason to conclude that the greater part may, for the natives,
who never appear to bestow the smallest labour in improving or even in
cultivating such as they naturally possess, can hardly be suspected of
taking the pains to import exotics. The larger number grow wild, and the
rest are planted in a careless, irregular manner about their villages.

(*Footnote. Les terres possedees par les Malais, sont en general de tres
bonne qualite. La nature semble avoir pris plaisir d'y placer ses plus
excellentes productions. On y voit tous les fruits delicieux que j'ai dit
se trouver sur le territoire de Siam, et une multitude d'autres fruits
agreables qui sont particuliers a ces isles. On y respire un air embaume
par une multitude de fleurs agreables qui se succedent toute l'annee, et
dont l'odeur suave penetre jusqu'a l'ame, et inspire la volupte la plus
seduisante. Il n'est point de voyageur qui en se promenant dans les
campagnes de Malacca, ne se sente invite a fixer son sejour dans un lieu
si plein d'agremens, dont la nature seule a fait tous les frais. Voyages
d'un Philosophe par M. Poivre page 56.)


(PLATE 3. THE MANGUSTIN FRUIT, GARCINIA MANGOSTANA.
Engraved by J. Swaine.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


MANGUSTIN.

The mangustin, called by the natives manggis and manggista (Garcinia
mangostana, L.) is the pride of these countries, to which it exclusively
belongs, and has, by general consent, obtained, in the opinion of
Europeans, the pre-eminence amongst Indian fruits. Its characteristic
quality is extreme delicacy of flavour, without being rich or luscious.
It is a drupe of a brownish-red colour, and the size of a common apple,
consisting of a thick rind, somewhat hard on the outside, but soft and
succulent within, encompassing kernels which are covered with a juicy and
perfectly white pulp, which is the part eaten, or, more properly, sucked,
for it dissolves in the mouth. Its qualities are as innocent as they are
grateful, and the fruit may be eaten in any moderate quantity without
danger of surfeit, or other injurious effects. The returns of its season
appeared to be irregular, and the periods short.

