MANGO.

The mango, called mangga and mampalam (Mangifera indica, L.) is well
known to be a rich, high-flavoured fruit of the plumb kind, and is found
here in great perfection; but there are many inferior varieties beside
the ambachang, or Mangifera foetida, and the tais.

JAMBU.

Of the jambu (eugenia, L.) there are several species, among which the
jambu merah or kling (Eugenia malaccensis) is the most esteemed for the
table, and is also the largest. In shape it has some resemblance to the
pear, but is not so taper near the stalk. The outer skin, which is very
fine, is tinged with a deep and beautiful red, the inside being perfectly
white. Nearly the whole substance is edible, and when properly ripe it is
a delicious fruit; but otherwise, it is spongy and indigestible. In smell
and even in taste it partakes much of the flavour of the rose; but this
quality belongs more especially to another species, called jambu ayer
mawar, or the rose-water jambu. Nothing can be more beautiful than the
blossoms, the long and numerous stamina of which are of a bright pink
colour. The tree grows in a handsome, regular, conical shape, and has
large, deep-green, pointed leaves. The jambu ayer (Eugenia aquea) is a
delicate and beautiful fruit in appearance, the colour being a mixture of
white and pink; but in its flavour, which is a faint, agreeable acid, it
does not equal the jambu merah.

PLANTAIN.

Of the pisang, or plantain (Musa paradisiaca, L.) the natives reckon
above twenty varieties, including the banana of the West Indies. Among
these the pisang amas, or small yellow plantain, is esteemed the most
delicate; and next to that the pisang raja, pisang dingen, and pisang
kalle.

Pineapple.

The nanas, or pineapple (Bromelia ananas), though certainly not
indigenous, grows here in great plenty with the most ordinary culture.
Some think them inferior to those produced from hothouses in England; but
this opinion may be influenced by the smallness of their price, which
does not exceed two or three pence. With equal attention it is probable
they might be rendered much superior, and their variety is considerable.
The natives eat them with salt.

