ORANGES.

Oranges (limau manis) of many sorts, are in the highest perfection. That
called limau japan, or Japan orange, is a fine fruit, not commonly known
in Europe. In this the cloves adhere but slightly to each other, and
scarcely at all to the rind, which contains an unusual quantity of the
essential oil. The limau gadang, or pumple-nose (Citrus aurantium),
called in the West Indies the shaddock (from the name of the captain who
carried them thither), is here very fine, and distinguished into the
white and red sorts. Limes or limau kapas, and lemons, limau kapas
panjang, are in abundance. The natives enumerate also the limau langga,
limau kambing, limau pipit, limau sindi masam, and limau sindi manis. The
true citron, or limau karbau, is not common nor in esteem.

GUAVA.

The guava (Psidium pomiferum) called jambu biji, and also jambu protukal
(for Portugal, in consequence, as we may presume, of its having been
introduced by the people of that country) has a flavour which some
admire, and others equally dislike. The pulp of the red sort is sometimes
mixed with cream by Europeans, to imitate strawberries, from a fond
partiality to the productions of their native soil; and it is not
unusual, amidst a profusion of the richest eastern fruits, to sigh for an
English codling or gooseberry.

CUSTARD-APPLE.

The siri kaya, or custard-apple (Annona squamosa), derives its name from
the likeness which its white and rich pulp bears to a custard, and it is
accordingly eaten with a spoon. The nona, as it is called by the natives
(Annona reticulata), is another species of the same fruit, but not so
grateful to the taste.

PAPAW.

The kaliki, or papaw (Carica papaja), is a large, substantial, and
wholesome fruit, in appearance not unlike a smooth sort of melon, but not
very highly flavoured. The pulp is of a reddish yellow, and the seeds,
which are about the size of grains of pepper, have a hot taste like
cresses. The watermelon, called here samangka (Cucurbita citrullus) is of
very fine quality. The rock or musk-melons, are not common.

