TAMARIND.

Tamarinds, called asam jawa, or the Javan acid, are the produce of a
large and noble tree, with small pinnated leaves, and supply a grateful
relief in fevers, which too frequently require it. The natives preserve
them with salt, and use them as an acid ingredient in their curries and
other dishes. It may be remarked that in general they are not fond of
sweets, and prefer many of their fruits whilst green to the same in their
ripe state.


(PLATE 4. THE RAMBUTAN, Nephelium lappaceum.
L. Wilkins delt. Engraved by J. Swaine.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


RAMBUTAN.

The rambutan (Nephelium lappaceum, L. Mant.) is in appearance not much
unlike the fruit of the arbutus, but larger, of a brighter red, and
covered with coarser hair or soft spines, from whence it derives its
name. The part eaten is a gelatinous and almost transparent pulp
surrounding the kernel, of a rich and pleasant acid.


(PLATE 5. THE LANSEH FRUIT, Lansium domesticum.
L. Wilkins delt. Hooker Sc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.


PLATE 6. THE RAMBEH FRUIT, A SPECIES OF LANSEH.
Maria Wilkins delt. Engraved by J. Swaine.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


LANSEH.

The lanseh, likewise but little known to botanists, is a small oval
fruit, of a whitish-brown colour, which, being deprived of its thin outer
coat, divides into five cloves, of which the kernels are covered with a
fleshy pulp, subacid, and agreeable to the taste. The skin contains a
clammy juice, extremely bitter, and, if not stripped with care, it is apt
to communicate its quality to the pulp. M. Correa de Serra, in les
Annales du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle Tome 10 page 157 plate 7, has
given a description of the Lansium domesticum from specimens of the fruit
preserved in the collection of Sir Joseph Banks. The chupak, ayer-ayer,
and rambe are species or varieties of the same fruit.

BLIMBING.

Of the blimbing (Averrhoa carambola) a pentagonal fruit, containing five
flattish seeds, and extremely acid, there are two sorts, called penjuru
and besi. The leaves of the latter are small, opposite, and of a
sap­green; those of the former grow promiscuously and are of a silver
green. There is also the blimbing bulu (Averrhoa billimbi), or smooth
species. Their uses are chiefly in cookery, and for purposes where a
strong acid is required, as in cleaning the blades of their krises and
bringing out the damask, for which they are so much admired. The cheremi
(Averrhoa acida) is nearly allied to the blimbing besi, but the fruit is
smaller, of an irregular shape, growing in clusters close to the branch,
and containing each a single hard seed or stone. It is a common
substitute for our acid fruits in tarts.

