KATAPING.

The kataping (Terminalia catappa, L. and Juglans catappa, Lour.)
resembles the almond both in its outer husk and the flavour of its
kernel; but instead of separating into two parts, like the almond, it is
formed of spiral folds, and is developed somewhat like a rosebud, but
continuous, and not in distinct laminae.

SPECIES OF CHESTNUT.

The barangan (a species of fagus) resembles the chestnut. The tree is
large, and the nuts grow sometimes one, two, and three in a husk. The
jerring, a species of mimosa, resembles the same fruit, but is larger and
more irregularly shaped than the barangan. The tree is smaller. The tapus
(said to be a new genus belonging to the tricoccae) has likewise some
analogy, but more distant, to the chestnut. There are likewise three nuts
in one husk, forming in shape an oblong spheroid. If eaten unboiled they
are said to inebriate. The tree is large.


(PLATE 7. THE KAMILING OR BUAH KRAS, Juglans camirium.
L. Wilkins delt. Engraved by J. Swaine.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


KAMILING.

The fruit named kamiri, kamiling, and more commonly buah kras, or the
hard fruit (Camirium cordifolium, Gaert. and Juglans camirium, Lour.)
bears much resemblance to the walnut in the flavour and consistence of
the kernel; but the shell is harder and does not open in the same manner.
The natives of the hills make use of it as a substitute for the coconut,
both in their cookery and for procuring a delicate oil.

RATTAN.

The rotan salak (Calamus zalacca, Gaert.) yields a fruit, the pulp of
which is sweetish, acidulous, and pleasant. Its outer coat, like those of
the other rotans, is covered with scales, or the appearance of nice
basket-work. It incloses sometimes one, two, and three kernels, of a
peculiar horny substance.

CASHEW.

The cashew-apple and nut, called jambu muniet, or monkey-jambu
(Anacardium occidentale), are well known for the strong acidity of the
former, and the caustic quality of the oil contained in the latter, from
tasting which the inexperienced often suffer.

