CHAMPAKA.

Champaka (Michelia champaca). This tree grows in a regular, conical
shape, and is ornamental in gardens. The flowers are a kind of small
tulip, but close and pointed at top; their colour a deep yellow, the
scent strong, and at a distance agreeable. They are wrapped in the folds
of the hair, both by the women, and by young men who aim at gallantry.

TANJONG.

Bunga tanjong (Mimusops elengi, L.) A fair tree, rich in foliage, of a
dark green; the flowers small, radiated, of a yellowish white, and worn
in wreaths by the women; their scent, though exquisite at a distance, is
too powerful when brought nigh. The fruit is a drupe, containing a large
blackish flatted seed.

GARDENIA.

Sangklapa (Gardenia flore simplice). A handsome shrub with leaves of very
deep green, long-pointed; the flowers a pure white, without visible
stamina or pistil, the petals standing angularly to each other. It has
little or no scent. The pachah-piring (Gardenia florida, described by
Rumphius under the name of catsjopiri) is a grand white double flower,
emitting a pleasing and not powerful odour.

HIBISCUS.

The bunga raya (Hibiscus rosa sinensis) is a well-known shrub, with
leaves of a yellowish green, serrated and curled. Of one sort the flower
is red, yielding a juice of deep purple, and when applied to leather
produces a bright black, from whence its vulgar name of the shoe-flower.
Of another sort the blossom is white. They are without smell.

PLUMERIA.

Bunga or kumbang kamboja (Plumeria obtusa) is likewise named bunga
kubur-an, from its being always planted about graves. The flower is
large, white, yellow towards the centre, consisting of five simple,
smooth,
thick petals, without visible pistil or stamina, and yielding a strong
scent. The leaf of the tree is long, pointed, of a deep green, remarkable
in this, that round the fibres proceeding from the midrib run another set
near the edge, forming a handsome border. The tree grows in a stunted,
irregular manner, and even whilst young has a venerable antique
appearance.

