PANDAN.

Of the pandan (pandanus), a shrub with very long prickly leaves, like
those of the pineapple or aloe, there are many varieties, of which some
are highly fragrant, particularly the pandan wangi (Pandanus
odoratissima, L.), which produces a brownish white spath or blossom, one
or two feet in length. This the natives shred fine and wear about their
persons. The pandan pudak, or keura of Thunberg, which is also fragrant,
I have reason to believe the same as the wangi. The common sort is
employed for hedging and called caldera by Europeans in many parts of
India. In the Nicobar islands it is cultivated and yields a fruit called
the melori, which is one of the principle articles of food.

EPIDENDRA.

Bunga anggrek (epidendrum). The species or varieties of this remarkable
tribe of parasitical plants are very numerous, and may be said to exhibit
a variety of loveliness. Kaempfer describes two kinds by the names of
angurek warna and katong'ging; the first of which I apprehend to be the
anggrek bunga putri (Angraecum scriptum, R.) and the other the anggrek
kasturi (Angraecum moschatum, R.) or scorpion-flower, from its resembling
that insect, as the former does the butterfly. The musky scent resides at
the extremity of the tail.*

(*Footnote. Habetur haec planta apud Javanos in deliciis et magno studio
colitur; tum ob floris eximium odorem, quem spirat, moschi, tum ob
singularem elegantiam et figuram scorpionis, quam exhibet...spectaculo
sane jocundissimo, ut negem quicquam elegantius et admiratione dignius in
regno vegetabili me vidisse...Odorem flos moschi exquisitissimum atque
adeo copiosum spargit, ut unicus stylus floridus totum conclave impleat.
Qui vero odor, quod maxi me mireris, in extrema parte petali caudam
referentis, residet; qua abicissa, omnis cessat odoris expiratio. Amoen
exoticae, page 868.)

WATER-LILIES, ETC.

The bunga tarati or seruja (Nymphaea nelumbo) as well as several other
beautiful kinds of aquatic plants are found upon the inland waters of
this country. Daun gundi or tabung bru (Nepenthes destillatoria) can
scarcely be termed a flower, but is a very extraordinary climbing plant.
From the extremity of the leaf a prolongation of the mid-rib, resembling
the tendril of a vine, terminates in a membrane formed like a tankard
with the lid or valve half opened; and growing always nearly erect, it is
commonly half full of pure water from the rain or dews. This monkey-cup
(as the Malayan name implies) is about four or five inches long and an
inch in diameter. Giring landak (Crotalaria retusa) is a papilionaceous
flower resembling the lupin, yellow, and tinged at the extremities with
red. From the rattling of its seed in the pod it obtains its name, which
signifies porcupine-bells, alluding to the small bells worn about the
ankles of children. The daup (bauhinia) is a small, white, semiflosculous
flower, with a faint smell. The leaves alone attract notice, being
double, as if united by a hinge, and this peculiarity suggested the
Linnean name, which was given in compliment to two brothers of the name
of Bauhin, celebrated botanists, who always worked conjointly.

