(*Footnote. Since the above was written I have seen the Dissertation sur
les Effets d'un Poison de Java, appele Upas tieute, etc.; presentee a la
Faculte de Medicine de Paris le 6 Juillet 1809, par M. Alire
Raffeneau-Delile, in which he details a set of curious and interesting
experiments on this very active poison, made with specimens brought from
Java by M. Leschenault; and also a second dissertation, in manuscript
(presented to the Royal Society), upon the effects of similar experiments
made with what he terms the upas antiar. The former he states to be a
decoction or extract from the bark of the roots of a climbing plant of
the genus strychnos, called tieute by the natives of Java; and the latter
to be a milky, bitter, and yellowish juice, running from an incision in
the bark of a large tree (new genus) called antiar; the word upas
meaning, as M. Leschenault understands, vegetable poison of any kind. A
small branch of the puhn upas, with some of the poisonous gum, was
brought to England in 1806 by Dr. Roxburgh, who informed Mr. Lambert that
a plant of it which he had procured from Sumatra was growing rapidly in
the Company's Botanic Garden at Calcutta. A specimen of the gum, by the
favour of the latter gentleman, is in my possession.)


CHAPTER 6.

BEASTS.
REPTILES.
FISH.
BIRDS.
INSECTS.

BEASTS.

The animal kingdom claims attention, but, the quadrupeds of the island
being in general the same as are found elsewhere throughout the East,
already well described, I shall do little more than furnish a list of
those which have occurred to my notice; adding a few observations on such
as may appear to require them.

BUFFALO.

The karbau, or buffalo, constituting a principal part of the food of the
natives, and, being the only animal employed in their domestic labours,
it is proper that I should enter into some detail of its qualities and
uses; although it may be found not to differ materially from the buffalo
of Italy, and to be the same with that of Bengal. The individuals of the
species, as is the case with other domesticated cattle, differ extremely
from each other in their degree of perfection, and a judgment is not to
be formed of the superior kinds, from such as are usually furnished as
provision to the ships from Europe. They are distinguished into two
sorts; the black and the white. Both are equally employed in work, but
the latter is seldom killed for food, being considered much inferior in
quality, and by many as unwholesome, occasioning the body to break out in
blotches. If such be really the effect, it may be presumed that the light
flesh-colour is itself the consequence of some original disorder, as in
the case of those of the human species who are termed white negroes. The
hair upon this sort is extremely thin, scarcely serving to cover the
hide; nor have the black buffaloes a coat like the cattle of England. The
legs are shorter than those of the ox, the hoofs larger, and the horns
are quite peculiar, being rather square or flat than round, excepting
near the extremities; and whether pointing backward, as in general, or
forwards, as they often do, are always in the plane of the forehead, and
not at an angle, as those of the cow-kind. They contain much solid
substance, and are valuable in manufacture. The tail hangs down to the
middle joint of the leg only, is small, and terminates in a bunch of
hair. The neck is thick and muscular, nearly round, but somewhat flatted
at top, and has little or no dewlap dependant from it. The organ of
generation in the male has an appearance as if the extremity were cut
off. It is not a salacious animal. The female goes nine months with calf,
which it suckles during six, from four teats. When crossing a river it
exhibits the singular sight of carrying its young one on its back. It has
a weak cry, in a sharp tone, very unlike the lowing of oxen. The most
part of the milk and butter required for the Europeans (the natives not
using either) is supplied by the buffalo, and its milk is richer than
that of the cow, but not yielded in equal quantity. What these latter
produce is also very small compared with the dairies of Europe. At
Batavia, likewise, we are told that their cows are small and lean, from
the scantiness of good pasture, and do not give more than about an
English quart of milk, sixteen of which are required to make a pound of
butter.

