Although common in every part of the country, they are not understood to
exist in the proper wild or indigenous state, those found in the woods
being termed karbau jalang, or stray buffaloes, and considered as the
subject of property; or if originally wild, they may afterwards, from
their use in labour and food, have been all caught and appropriated by
degrees. They are gregarious, and usually found in large numbers
together, but sometimes met with singly, when they are more dangerous to
passengers. Like the turkey and some other animals they have an antipathy
to a red colour, and are excited by it to mischief. When in a state of
liberty they run with great swiftness, keeping pace with the speed of an
ordinary horse. Upon an attack or alarm they fly to a short distance, and
then suddenly face about and draw up in battle-array with surprising
quickness and regularity; their horns being laid back, and their muzzles
projecting. Upon the nearer approach of the danger that presses on them
they make a second flight, and a second time halt and form; and this
excellent mode of retreat, which but few nations of the human race have
attained to such a degree of discipline as to adopt, they continue till
they gain the fastnesses of a neighbouring wood. Their principal foe,
next to man, is the tiger; but only the weaker sort, and the females fall
a certain prey to this ravager, as the sturdy male buffalo can support
the first vigorous stroke from the tiger's paw, on which the fate of the
battle usually turns.

COW.

The cow, called sapi (in another dialect sampi) and jawi, is obviously a
stranger to the country, and does not appear to be yet naturalized. The
bull is commonly of what is termed the Madagascar breed, with a large
hump upon the shoulders, but from the general small size of the herds I
apprehend that it degenerates, from the want of good pasture, the
spontaneous production of the soil being too rank.

THE HORSE.

The horse, kuda: the breed is small, well made, and hardy. The country
people bring them down in numbers for sale in nearly a wild state;
chiefly from the northward. In the Batta country they are eaten as food;
which is a custom also amongst the people of Celebes.

