SHEEP, ETC.

Sheep, biri-biri and domba: small breed, introduced probably from Bengal.


(PLATE 11a. n.2.
1. SKULL OF THE KAMBING-UTAN.
2. SKULL OF THE KIJANG.
W. Bell delt. A. Cardon sc.)


(PLATE 14. n.1. THE KAMBING-UTAN, OR WILD-GOAT.
W. Bell delt.)


Goat, kambing: beside the domestic species, which is in general small and
of a light brown colour, there is the kambing utan, or wild goat. One
which I examined was three feet in height, and four in the length of the
body. It had something of the gazelle in its appearance, and, with the
exception of the horns, which were about six inches long and turned back
with an arch, it did not much resemble the common goat. The hinder parts
were shaped like those of a bear, the rump sloping round off from the
back; the tail was very small, and ended in a point; the legs clumsy; the
hair along the ridge of the back rising coarse and strong, almost like
bristles; no beard; over the shoulder was a large spreading tuft of
greyish hair; the rest of the hair black throughout; the scrotum
globular. Its disposition seemed wild and fierce, and it is said by the
natives to be remarkably swift.

Hog, babi: that breed we call Chinese.

The wild hog, babi utan.

Dog, anjing: those brought from Europe lose in a few years their
distinctive qualities, and degenerate at length into the cur with erect
ears, kuyu, vulgarly called the pariah dog. An instance did not occur of
any one going mad during the period of my residence. Many of them are
affected with a kind of gonorrhoea.


(PLATE 11. n.1. THE ANJING-AYER, Mustela lutra.
W. Bell delt. A. Cardon fc.)


(PLATE 13a. n.2. THE ANJING-AYER.
Sinensis delt. A. Cardon fc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


Otter, anjing ayer (Mustela lutra).

Cat, kuching: these in every respect resemble our common domestic cat,
excepting that the tails of all are more or less imperfect, with a knob
or hardness at the end, as if they had been cut or twisted off. In some
the tail is not more than a few inches in length, whilst in others it is
so nearly perfect that the defect can be ascertained only by the touch.

