BEAR, ETC.

Bear, bruang: generally small and black: climbs the coconut-trees in
order to devour the tender part or cabbage.


(PLATE 12. n.1. THE PALANDOK, A DIMINUTIVE SPECIES OF MOSCHUS.
Sinensis delt. A. Cardon fc.)


(PLATE 12a. n.2. THE KIJANG OR ROE, Cervus muntjak.
W. Bell delt. A. Cardon sc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


Of the deer kind there are several species: rusa, the stag, of which some
are very large; kijang, the roe, with unbranched horns, the emblem of
swiftness and wildness with the Malayan poets; palandok, napu, and
kanchil, three varieties, of which the last is the smallest, of that most
delicate animal, termed by Buffon the chevrotin, but which belong to the
moschus. Of a kanchil measured at Batavia the extreme length was sixteen
inches, and the height ten behind, and eight at the shoulder.

Babi-rusa, or hog-deer: an animal of the hog kind, with peculiar tusks
resembling horns. Of this there is a representation in Valentyn, Volume 3
page 268 fig. c., and also in the very early travels of Cosmas, published
in Thevenot's Collect. Volume 1 page 2 of the Greek Text.

The varieties of the monkey tribe are innumerable: among them the best
known are the muniet, karra, bru, siamang (or simia gibbon of Buffon),
and lutong. With respect to the appellation of orang utan, or wild man,
it is by no means specific, but applied to any of these animals of a
large size that occasionally walks erect, and bears the most resemblance
to the human figure.

Sloth, ku-kang, ka-malas-an (Lemur tardigradus).

Squirrel, tupei; usually small and dark-coloured.

Teleggo, stinkard.

TIGER.

Tiger, arimau, machang: this beast is here of a very large size, and
proves a destructive foe to man as well as to most other animals. The
heads being frequently brought in to receive the reward given by the East
India Company for killing them, I had an opportunity of measuring one,
which was eighteen inches across the forehead. Many circumstances
respecting their ravages, and the modes of destroying them, will occur in
the course of the work.

