Tiger-cat, kuching-rimau (said to feed on vegetables as well as flesh).

Civet-cat, tanggalong (Viverra civetta): the natives take the civet, as
they require it for use, from a peculiar receptacle under the tail of the
animal. It appears from the Ayin Akbari (Volume 1 page 103) that the
civet used at Delhi was imported from Achin.


(PLATE 9a. THE MUSANG, A SPECIES OF VIVERRA.
W. Bell delt. A. Cardon fc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


Polecat, musang (Viverra fossa, or a new species).


(PLATE 13. n.1. THE LANDAK, Hystrix longicauda.
Sinensis delt. A. Cardon fc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


Porcupine (Hystrix longicauda) landak, and, for distinction, babi landak.

Hedgehog (erinaceus) landak.


(PLATE 10. THE TANGGILING OR PENG-GOLING-SISIK, A SPECIES OF MANIS.
W. Bell delt. A. Cardon fct.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


PENG-GOLING.

Peng-goling, signifying the animal which rolls itself up; or pangolin of
Buffon: this is distinguished into the peng-goling rambut, or hairy sort
(myrmophaga), and the peng-goling sisik, or scaly sort, called more
properly tanggiling (species of manis); the scales of this are esteemed
by the natives for their medicinal properties. See Asiatic Researches
Volume 1 page 376 and Volume 2 page 353.


(PLATE 9. A SPECIES OF Lemur volans, SUSPENDED FROM THE RAMBEH-TREE.
Sinensis delt. N. Cardon fct.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


BATS.

Of the bat kind there is an extraordinary variety: the churi-churi is the
smallest species, called vulgarly burong tikus, or the mouse-bird; next
to these is the kalalawar; then the kalambit; and the kaluwang (noctilio)
is of considerable size; of these I have observed very large flights
occasionally passing at a great height in the air, as if migrating from
one country to another, and Captain Forrest notices their crossing the
Straits of Sunda from Java Head to Mount Pugong; they are also seen
hanging by hundreds upon trees. The flying-foxes and flying-squirrels
(Lemur volans), which by means of a membrane extending from what may be
termed the forelegs to those behind, are enabled to take short flights,
are also not uncommon.

