(*Footnote. This fish was hooked by Mr. John Griffiths near the southern
extremity of the west coast of Sumatra, and was given to Captain Cumming
of the Britannia indiaman, by whom it was presented to Sir Joseph Banks.)

VARIOUS FISH.

To attempt an enumeration of the species of fish with which these seas
abound would exceed my power, and I shall only mention briefly some of
the most obvious; as the shark, hiyu (squalus); skate, ikan pari (raya);
ikan mua (muraena); ikan chanak (gymnotus); ikan gajah (cepole); ikan
karang or bonna (chaetodon), described by Mr. John Bell in Volume 82 of
the Philosophical Transactions. It is remarkable for certain tumours
filled with oil, attached to its bones. There are also the ikan krapo, a
kind of rock-cod or sea-perch; ikan marrang or kitang (teuthis), commonly
named the leather fish, and among the best brought to table; jinnihin, a
rock-fish shaped like a carp; bawal or pomfret (species of chaetodon);
balanak, jumpul, and marra, three fish of the mullet kind (mugil); kuru
(polynemus); ikan lidah, a kind of sole; tingeri, resembles the mackerel;
gagu, catfish; summa, a river fish, resembling the salmon; ringkis,
resembles the trout, and is noted for the size of its roe; ikan tambarah,
I believe the shad of Siak River; ikan gadis, good river fish, about the
size of a carp; ikan bada, small, like white bait; ikan gorito, sepia;
ikan terbang, flying-fish (exocoetus). The little seahorse (Syngnathus
hippocampus) is commonly found here.

BIRDS.

Of birds the variety is considerable, and the following list contains but
a small portion of those that might be discovered in the island by a
qualified person who should confine his researches to that branch of
natural history.

KUWAU.

The kuwau, or Sumatran pheasant (Phasianus argus), is a bird of uncommon
magnificence and beauty; the plumage being perhaps the most rich, without
any mixture of gaudiness, of all the feathered race. It is found
extremely difficult to keep it alive for any considerable time after
catching it in the woods, yet it has in one instance been brought to
England; but, having lost its fine feathers by the voyage, it did not
excite curiosity, and died unnoticed. There is now a good specimen in the
Liverpool Museum. It has in its natural state an antipathy to the light,
and in the open day is quite moped and inanimate. When kept in a darkened
place it seems at its ease, and sometimes makes use of the note or call
from which it takes its name, and which is rather plaintive than harsh.
The flesh, of which I have eaten, perfectly resembles that of the common
pheasant (tugang), also found in the woods, but the body is of much
larger size. I have reason to believe that it is not, as supposed, a
native of the North or any part of China. From the Malayan Islands, of
which it is the boast, it must be frequently carried thither.

