TIME OF GATHERING.

As soon as any of the berries or corns redden, the bunch is reckoned fit
for gathering, the remainder being then generally full-grown, although
green; nor would it answer to wait for the whole to change colour, as the
most mature would drop off.

MODE OF DRYING AND CLEANSING.

It is collected in small baskets slung over the shoulder, and with the
assistance of the women and children conveyed to a smooth level spot of
clean hard ground near the garden or the village, where it is spread,
sometimes upon mats, to dry in the sun, but exposed at the same time to
the vicissitudes of the weather, which are not much regarded nor thought
to injure it. In this situation it becomes black and shrivelled, as we
see it in Europe, and as it dries is hand-rubbed occasionally to separate
the grains from the stalk. It is then winnowed in large round shallow
sieves called nyiru, and put in large vessels made of bark (kulitkayu)
under their houses until the whole of the crop is gathered, or a
sufficient quantity for carrying (usually by water) to the European
factory or gadong at the mouth of the river. That which has been gathered
at the properest stage of maturity will shrivel the least; but, if
plucked too soon, it will in a short time, by removal from place to
place, become mere dust. Of this defect trial may be made by the hand;
but as light pepper may have been mixed with the sound it becomes
necessary that the whole should be garbled at the scale by machines
constructed for the purpose. Pepper that has fallen to the ground
overripe and been gathered from thence will be known by being stripped of
its outer coat, and in that state is an inferior kind of white pepper.

WHITE PEPPER.

This was for centuries supposed in Europe to be the produce of a
different plant, and to possess qualities superior to those of the common
black pepper; and accordingly it sold at a considerably higher price. But
it has lost in some measure that advantage since it has been known that
the secret depended merely upon the art of blanching the grains of the
other sort, by depriving it of the exterior pellicle. For this purpose
the ripest red grains are picked out and put in baskets to steep, either
in running water (which is preferred), in pits dug for the occasion near
the banks of rivers, or in stagnant pools. Sometimes it is only buried in
the ground. In any of these situations it swells, and in the course of a
week or ten days bursts its tegument, from which it is afterwards
carefully separated by drying in the sun, rubbing between the hands, and
winnowing. It has been much disputed, and is still undetermined, to which
sort the preference ought to be given. The white pepper has this obvious
recommendation, that it can be made of no other than the best and
soundest grains, taken at their most perfect stage of maturity: but on
the other hand it is argued that, by being suffered to remain the
necessary time in water, its strength must be considerably diminished;
and that the outer husk, which is lost by the process, has a peculiar
flavour distinct from that of the heart, and though not so pungent, more
aromatic. For the white pepper the planter receives the fourth part of a
dollar, or fifteen pence, per bamboo or gallon measure, equal to about
six pounds weight. At the sales in England the prices are at this time in
the proportion of seventeen to ten or eleven, and the quantity imported
has for some years been inconsiderable.

