SURVEYS.

Once in every year a survey of all the pepper-plantations is taken by the
Company's European servants resident at the various settlements, in the
neighbourhood of which that article is cultivated. The number of vines in
each particular garden is counted; accurate observation is made of its
state and condition; orders are given where necessary for further care,
for completion of stipulated quantity, renewals, changes of situation for
better soil; and rewards and punishments are distributed to the planters
as they appear, from the degree of their industry or remissness,
deserving of either. Minutes of all these are entered in the survey-book,
which, beside giving present information to the chief, and to the
governor and council, to whom a copy is transmitted, serves as a guide
and check for the survey of the succeeding year. An abstract of the form
of the book is as follows. It is divided into sundry columns, containing
the name of the village; the names of the planters; the number of
chinkareens planted; the number of vines just planted; of young vines,
not in a bearing state, three classes or years; of young vines in a
bearing state, three classes; of vines in prime; of those on decline; of
those that are old, but still productive; the total number; and lastly
the quantity of pepper received during the year. A space is left for
occasional remarks, and at the conclusion is subjoined a comparison of
the totals of each column, for the whole district or residency, with
those of the preceding year. This business the reader will perceive to be
attended with considerable trouble, exclusive of the actual fatigue of
the surveys, which from the nature of the country must necessarily be
performed on foot, in a climate not very favourable to such excursions.
The journeys in few places can be performed in less than a month, and
often require a much longer time.

The arrival of the Company's Resident at each dusun is considered as a
period of festivity. The chief, together with the principal inhabitants,
entertain him and his attendants with rustic hospitality, and when he
retires to rest, his slumbers are soothed, or interrupted, by the songs
of young females, who never fail to pay this compliment to the respected
guest; and receive in return some trifling ornamental and useful presents
(such as looking-glasses, fans, and needles) at his departure.

