There are, agreeably to the form of the survey book, eleven stages or
classes of vines, each advanced one year. Of these classes six are
bearing and five young. If therefore the gardens were not liable to
accidents, but passed on from column to column undiminished, the true
proportion of the bearing vines to the young would be as six to five, or
to the total, as six to eleven. But the various contingencies above
hinted at must tend to reduce this proportion; while, on the other hand,
if any of the gardens should continue longer than is necessary to pass
through all the stages on the survey-book, or should remain more than one
year in a prime state, these circumstances would tend to increase the
proportion. What then is the true medium proportion can only be
determined from experience, and by comparing the state of a residency at
various successive periods. In order to ascertain this point a very
ingenious gentleman and able servant of the East India Company, Mr. John
Crisp, to whom I am indebted for the most part of what I have laid before
the reader on this part of the subject, drew out in the year 1777 a
general comparative view of Manna residency, from the surveys of twelve
years, annexing the produce of each year. From the statement it appeared
that the proportion of the bearing vines to the whole number in that
district was no more than 5.1 to 11, instead of 6 to 11, which would be
the proportion if not reduced by accidents; and further that, when the
whole produce of the twelve years was diffused over the whole number of
bearing vines during that period, the produce of one thousand vines came
out to be four hundred and fifty-three pounds, which must therefore be
estimated as the medium produce of that residency. The same principle of
calculation being applied to the other residencies, it appeared that the
mean annual produce of one thousand vines, in all the various stages of
bearing, taken collectively throughout the country, deduced from the
experience of twelve years, was four hundred and four pounds. It likewise
became evident from the statements drawn out by that gentleman that the
medium annual produce of the Company's settlements on the west coast of
Sumatra ought to be estimated at twelve hundred tons, of sixteen hundred
weight; which is corroborated by an average of the actual receipts for
any considerable number of years.

