FIRST INTRODUCTION.

Complete success attended the measure: he returned in July 1798, and I
had the satisfaction of planting myself, and distributing for that
purpose, a number of young nutmeg and a few clove trees in the districts
of Bencoolen and Silebar, and other more distant spots, in order to
ascertain from experience the situations best adapted to their growth. I
particularly delivered to Mr. Charles Campbell, botanist, a portion to be
under his own immediate inspection; and another to Mr. Edward Coles, this
gentleman having in his service a family who were natives of a spice
island and had been used to the cultivation. When I quitted the coast in
January 1799 I had the gratification of witnessing the prosperous state
of the plantations, and of receiving information from the quarters where
they had been distributed of their thriving luxuriantly; and since my
arrival in England various letters have reached me to the same effect. To
the merit therefore of introducing this important article, and of forming
regulations for its successful culture, I put in my exclusive claim; and
am fully persuaded that if a liberal policy is adopted it will become of
the greatest commercial advantage to the Company and to the nation.

...

Further light will be thrown upon this subject and the progress of the
cultivation by the following extract of a letter to me from Mr. Campbell,
dated in November 1803:

Early in the year 1798 Mr. Broff, to whom the highest praise is due for
his enterprising and considerative scheme of procuring the spice trees
from our newly-conquered islands (after experiencing much disappointment
and want of support) overcame every obstacle, and we received, through
the agency of Mr. Jones, commercial resident at Amboina, five or six
hundred nutmeg plants, with about fifty cloves; but these latter were not
in a vigorous state. They were distributed and put generally under my
inspection. Their culture was attended with various success, but Mr.
Coles, from the situation of his farm, near Silebar River but not too
close to the seashore, and from, I believe, bestowing more personal
attention than any of us, has outstripped his competitors. Some trees
which I planted as far inland as the Sugar-loaf Mountain blossomed with
his, but the fruit was first perfected in his ground. The plants were
dispatched from Amboina in March 1798, just bursting from the shell, and
two months ago I plucked the perfect fruit, specimens of which I now send
you; being a period of five years and nine months only; whereas in their
native land eight years at least are commonly allowed. Having early
remarked the great promise of the trees I tried by every means in my
power to interest the Bengal government in our views, and at length, by
the assistance of Dr. Roxburgh, I succeeded.

