(*Footnote. The word kapur appears to be derived from the Sanskrit
karpura, and the Arabic and Persian kafur (from whence our camphor) to
have been adopted from the language of the country where the article is
produced. Barus is the name of a place in Sumatra.)

PLACE OF GROWTH.

The tree is a native of the northern parts of the island only, not being
found to the southward of the line, nor yet beyond the third degree of
north latitude. It grows without cultivation in the woods lying near to
the sea-coast, and is equal in height and bulk to the largest timber
trees, being frequently found upwards of fifteen feet in circumference.

WOOD.

For carpenters' purposes the wood is in much esteem, being easy to work,
light, durable, and not liable to be injured by insects, particularly by
the kumbang, a species of the bee, whose destructive perforations have
been already mentioned; but is also said to be more affected than most
others by the changes of the atmosphere. The leaf is small, of a roundish
oval, the fibres running straight and parallel to each other, and
terminates in a remarkably long and slender point. The flower has not yet
been brought to England. The fruit is described by C.F. Gaertner (De
Seminibus Volume 3 page 49 tab. 186) by the name of Dryobalanops
aromatica, from specimens in the collection of Sir Joseph Banks; but he
has unaccountably mistaken it for the cinnamon tree, and spoken of it as
a native of Ceylon. It is also described, from the same specimens, by M.
Correa de Serra (Annales du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle Tome 10 page 159
plate 8) by the name of Pterigium teres; without any reference whatever
to the nature of the tree as yielding this valuable drug. A beautiful
engraving of its very peculiar foliage has been made under the direction
of Mr. A.B. Lambert.

CAMPHOR FOUND IN THE FISSURES.

The camphor is found in the concrete state in which we see it, in natural
fissures or crevices of the wood, but does not exhibit any exterior
appearance by which its existence can be previously ascertained, and the
persons whose employment it is to collect it usually cut down a number of
trees, almost at random, before they find one that contains a sufficient
quantity to repay their labour, although always assisted in their
research by a professional conjurer, whose skill must be chiefly employed
in concealing or accounting for his own mistakes. It is said that not a
tenth part of the number felled is productive either of camphor or of
camphor-oil (meniak kapur), although the latter is less rare; and that
parties of men are sometimes engaged for two or three months together in
the forests, with very precarious success. This scarcity tends to enhance
the price. The tree when cut down is divided transversely into several
blocks, and these again are split with wedges into small pieces, from the
interstices of which the camphor, if any there be, is extracted. That
which comes away readily in large flakes, almost transparent, is esteemed
the prime sort or head; the smaller, clean pieces are considered as
belly, and the minute particles, chiefly scraped from the wood, and often
mixed with it, are called foot; according to the customary terms adopted
in the assortment of drugs. The mode of separating it from these and
other impurities is by steeping and washing it in water, and sometimes
with the aid of soap. It is then passed through sieves or screens of
different apertures in order to make the assortment, so far as that
depends upon the size of the grains; but much of the selection is also
made by hand, and particular care is taken to distinguish from the more
genuine kinds that which is produced by an artificial concretion of the
essential oil.

