(*Footnote. See Price Currents of the China trade. Camphor was purchased
in Sumatra by Commodore Beaulieu in 1622 at the rate of fifteen Spanish
dollars for twenty-eight ounces, which differs but little from the modern
price. In the Transactions of the Society at Batavia it appears that the
camphor of Borneo sells in their market for 3200 rix dollars, and that of
Japan for 50 rix dollars the pekul.)

JAPAN CAMPHOR.

It has been commonly supposed that the people of China or Japan prepare a
factitious substance resembling native camphor, and impregnated with its
virtues by the admixture of a small quantity of the genuine, which is
sold to the Dutch factory for thirty or forty dollars the pekul, sent to
Holland, and afterwards refined to the state in which we see it in our
shops, where it is sold at eight to twelve shillings the pound. It
appears however an extraordinary circumstance that any article could
possibly be so adulterated, bearing at the same time the likeness and
retaining the sensible qualities of its original, as that the dealers
should be enabled, with profit to themselves to resell it for the
fiftieth part of the price they gave. But, upon inquiry of an ingenious
person long resident in China, I learned that the Japan camphor is by no
means a factitious substance, but the genuine produce of a tree growing
in abundance in the latter country, different in every character from
that of Sumatra or Borneo, and well known to our botanists by the name of
Laurus camphora, L. He further informed me that the Chinese never mix the
Sumatran camphor with that from Japan, but purchase the former for their
own use, at the before-mentioned extravagant price, from an idea of its
efficacy, probably superstitious, and export the latter as a drug not
held in any particular estimation. Thus we buy the leaves of their
tea-plant at a high rate and neglect herbs, the natives of our own soil,
possessing perhaps equal virtues. It is known also that the Japan
camphor, termed factitious, will evaporate till it wholly disappears, and
at all stages of its diminution retain its full proportion of strength;
which does not seem the property of an adulterated or compounded body.
Kaempfer informs us that it is prepared from a decoction of the wood and
roots of the tree cut into small pieces; and the form of the lumps in
which it is brought to us shows that it has undergone a process. The
Sumatran sort, though doubtless from its extreme volatility it must be
subject to decrease, does not lose any very sensible quantity from being
kept, as I find from the experience of many years that it has been in my
possession. It probably may not be very easy to ascertain its superiority
over the other in the materia medica, not being brought for sale to this
country, nor generally administered; but from a medical person who
practised at Bencoolen I learned that the usual dose he gave was from
half a grain to one or two grains at the most. The oil, although hitherto
of little importance as an article of commerce, is a valuable domestic
medicine, and much used by the natives as well as Europeans in cases of
strains, swellings, and rheumatic pains; its particles, from their
extreme subtlety, readily entering the pores. It undergoes no
preparation, and is used in the state in which, upon incision, it has
distilled from the tree. The kayu putih (Melaleuca leucadendron) oil,
which is somewhat better known in England, is obtained in the same
manner; but to procure the meniak kayu or common wood-oil, used for
preserving timber or boards exposed to the weather, from decay, and for
boiling with dammar to pay the bottoms of ships and boats, the following
method is practised. They make a transverse incision into the tree to the
depth of some inches, and then cut sloping down from the notch, till they
leave a flat superficies. This they hollow out to a capacity to receive
about a quart. They then put into the hollow a bit of lighted reed, and
let it remain for about ten minutes, which, acting as a stimulus, draws
the fluid to that part. In the space of a night the liquor fills the
receptacle prepared for it, and the tree continues to yield a lesser
quantity for three successive nights, when the fire must be again
applied: but on a few repetitions it is exhausted.

