RATTANS.

Rattans or rotan (Calamus rotang) furnish annually many large cargoes,
chiefly from the eastern side of the island, where the Dutch buy them to
send to Europe; and the country traders for the western parts of India.
Walking-canes, or tongkat, of various kinds, are also produced near the
rivers which open to the straits of Malacca.

COTTON.

In almost every part of the country two species of cotton are cultivated,
namely, the annual sort named kapas (Gossypium herbaceum), and the shrub
cotton named kapas besar (Gossypium herboreum). The cotton produced from
both appears to be of very good quality, and might, with encouragement,
be procured in any quantities; but the natives raise no more than is
necessary for their own domestic manufactures. The silk cotton or kapok
(bombax) is also to be met with in every village. This is, to appearance,
one of the most beautiful raw materials the hand of nature has presented.
Its fineness, gloss, and delicate softness render it, to the sight and
touch, much superior to the labour of the silkworm; but owing to the
shortness and brittleness of the staple it is esteemed unfit for the reel
and loom, and is only applied to the unworthy purpose of stuffing pillows
and mattresses. Possibly it has not undergone a fair trial in the hands
of our ingenious artists, and we may yet see it converted into a valuable
manufacture. It grows in pods, from four to six inches long, which burst
open when ripe. The seeds entirely resemble the black pepper, but are
without taste. The tree is remarkable from the branches growing out
perfectly straight and horizontal, and being always three, forming equal
angles, at the same height: the diminutive shoots likewise grow flat; and
the several gradations of branches observe the same regularity to the
top. Some travellers have called it the umbrella tree, but the piece of
furniture called a dumb-waiter exhibits a more striking picture of it.

BETEL-NUT.

The betel-nut or pinang (Areca catechu) before mentioned is a
considerable article of traffic to the coast of Coromandel or Telinga,
particularly from Achin.

