COFFEE.

The coffee-trees are universally planted, but the fruit produced here is
not excellent in quality, which is probably owing entirely to the want of
skill in the management of them. The plants are disposed too close to
each other, and are so much overshaded by other trees that the sun cannot
penetrate to the fruit; owing to which the juices are not well ripened,
and the berries, which become large, do not acquire a proper flavour. Add
to this that the berries are gathered whilst red, which is before they
have arrived at a due degree of maturity, and which the Arabs always
permit them to attain to, esteeming it essential to the goodness of the
coffee. As the tree is of the same species with that cultivated in Arabia
there is little doubt but with proper care this article might be produced
of a quality equal, perhaps superior, to that imported from the West
Indies; though probably the heavy rains on Sumatra may prevent its
attaining to the perfection of the coffee of Mocha.*

(*Footnote. For these observations on the growth of the coffee, as well
as many others on the vegetable productions of the island, I am indebted
to the letters of Mr. Charles Miller, entered on the Company's records at
Bencoolen, and have to return him my thanks for many communications since
his return to England. On the subject of this article of produce I have
since received the following interesting information from the late Mr.
Charles Campbell in a letter dated November 1803. "The coffee you
recollect on this coast I found so degenerated from want of culture and
care as not to be worth the rearing. But this objection has been removed,
for more than three years ago I procured twenty-five plants from Mocha;
they produced fruit in about twenty months, are now in their second crop,
and loaded beyond any fruit-trees I ever saw. The average produce is
about eight pounds a tree; but so much cannot be expected in extensive
plantations, nor in every soil. The berries are in no respect inferior in
flavour to those of the parent country." This cultivation, I am happy to
hear, has since been carried to a great extent.)

