
(PLATE 2. THE DAMMAR, A SPECIES OF PINUS.
Sinensis delt. Swaine Sc.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


DAMMAR.

The dammar is a kind of turpentine or resin from a species of pine, and
used for the same purposes to which that and pitch are applied. It is
exported in large quantities to Bengal and elsewhere. It exudes, or
flows rather, spontaneously from the tree in such plenty that there is no
need of making incisions to procure it. The natives gather it in lumps
from the ground where it has fallen, or collect it from the shores of
bays and rivers whither it has floated. It hangs from the bough of the
tree which produces it in large pieces, and hardening in the air it
becomes brittle and is blown off by the first high wind. When a quantity
of it has fallen in the same place it appears like a rock, and thence,
they say, or more probably from its hardness, it is called dammar batu;
by which name it is distinguished from the dammar kruyen. This is another
species of turpentine, yielded by a tree growing in Lampong, called
kruyen, the wood of which is white and porous. It differs from the common
sort, or dammar batu, in being soft and whitish, having the consistence
and somewhat the appearance of putty. It is in much estimation for paying
the bottoms of vessels, for which use, to give it firmness and duration,
it ought to be mixed with some of the hard kind, of which it corrects the
brittleness. The natives, in common, do not boil it, but rub or smear it
on with their hands; a practice which is probably derived from indolence,
unless, as I have been informed, that boiling it, without oil, renders it
hard. To procure it, an incision is made in the tree.

DRAGONS-BLOOD.

Dragons-blood, Sanguis draconis, or jaranang, is a drug obtained from a
large species of rattan, called rotan jaranang, growing abundantly in the
countries of Palembang and Jambi, where it is manufactured and exported,
in the first instance to Batavia, and from thence to China, where it is
held in much estimation; but whether it be precisely the drug of our
shops, so named, I cannot take upon me to determine. I am informed that
it is prepared in the following manner: the stamina and other parts of
fructification of this plant, covered with the farina, are mixed with a
certain proportion of white dammar, and boiled in water until the whole
is well incorporated, and the water evaporated; by which time the
composition has acquired a red colour, and, when rubbed between the
fingers, comes off in a dry powder. Whilst soft, it is usually poured
into joints of small bamboo, and shipped in that state. According to this
account, which I received from my friend Mr. Philip Braham, who had an
opportunity of acquiring a knowledge of the process, the resinous quality
of the drug belongs only to the dammar, and not to the rotan.

