FISH-ROES.

The large roes of a species of fish (said to be like the shad, but more
probably of the mullet-kind) taken in great quantities at the mouth of
Siak River, are salted and exported from thence to all the Malayan
countries, where they are eaten with boiled rice, and esteemed a
delicacy. This is the botarga of the Italians, and here called trobo and
telur-trobo.

IMPORT-TRADE.

The most general articles of import-trade are the following:

From the coast of Coromandel various cotton goods, as long-cloth, blue
and white, chintz, and coloured handkerchiefs, of which those
manufactured at Pulicat are the most prized; and salt.

From Bengal muslins, striped and plain, and several other kinds of cotton
goods, as cossaes, baftaes, hummums, etc., taffetas and some other silks;
and opium in considerable quantities.

From the Malabar coast various cotton goods, mostly of a coarse raw
fabric.

From China coarse porcelain, kwalis or iron pans, in sets of various
sizes, tobacco shred very fine, gold thread, fans, and a number of small
articles.

From Celebes (known here by the names of its chief provinces, Mangkasar,
Bugis, and Mandar), Java, Balli, Ceram, and other eastern islands, the
rough, striped cotton cloth called kain-sarong, or vulgarly
bugis-clouting, being the universal body-dress of the natives; krises and
other weapons, silken kris-belts, tudongs or hats, small pieces of
ordnance, commonly of brass, called rantaka, spices, and also salt of a
large grain, and sometimes rice, chiefly from Balli.

From Europe silver, iron, steel, lead, cutlery, various sorts of
hardware, brass wire, and broadcloths, especially scarlet.

It is not within my plan to enlarge on this subject by entering into a
detail of the markets for, or prices of, the several articles, which are
extremely fluctuating, according to the more or less abundant or scanty
supply. Most of the kinds of goods above enumerated are incidentally
mentioned in other parts of the work, as they happen to be connected with
the account of the natives who purchase them.

