INK.

Ink is made by mixing lamp-black with the white of egg. To procure the
former they suspend over a burning lamp an earthen pot, the bottom of
which is moistened, in order to make the soot adhere to it.

DESIGNING.

Painting and drawing they are quite strangers to. In carving, both in
wood and ivory, they are curious and fanciful, but their designs are
always grotesque and out of nature. The handles of the krises are the
most common subjects of their ingenuity in this art, which usually
exhibit the head and beak of a bird, with the folded arms of a human
creature, not unlike the representation of one of the Egyptian deities.
In cane and basketwork they are particularly neat and expert; as well as
in mats, of which some kinds are much prized for their extreme fineness
and ornamental borders.

LOOMS.

Silk and cotton cloths, of varied colours, manufactured by themselves,
are worn by the natives in all parts of the country; especially by the
women. Some of their work is very fine, and the patterns prettily
fancied. Their loom or apparatus for weaving (tunun) is extremely
defective, and renders their progress tedious. One end of the warp being
made fast to a frame, the whole is kept tight, and the web stretched out
by means of a species of yoke, which is fastened behind the body, when
the person weaving sits down. Every second of the longitudinal threads,
or warp, passes separately through a set of reeds, like the teeth of a
comb, and the alternate ones through another set. These cross each other,
up and down, to admit the woof, not from the extremities, as in our
looms, nor effected by the feet, but by turning edgeways two flat sticks
which pass between them. The shuttle (turak) is a hollow reed about
sixteen inches long, generally ornamented on the outside, and closed at
one end, having in it a small bit of stick, on which is rolled the woof
or shoot. The silk cloths have usually a gold head. They use sometimes
another kind of loom, still more simple than this, being no more than a
frame in which the warp is fixed, and the woof darned with a long
small-pointed shuttle. For spinning the cotton they make use of a machine
very like ours. The women are expert at embroidery, the gold and silver
thread for which is procured from China, as well as their needles. For
common work their thread is the pulas before mentioned, or else filaments
of the pisang (musa).

