These torches are carried with a view, chiefly, to frighten away the
tigers, which are alarmed at the appearance of fire; and for the same
reason it is common to make a blaze with wood in different parts round
their villages. The tigers prove to the inhabitants, both in their
journeys and even their domestic occupations, most fatal and destructive
enemies. The number of people annually slain by these rapacious tyrants
of the woods is almost incredible. I have known instances of whole
villages being depopulated by them. Yet, from a superstitious prejudice,
it is with difficulty they are prevailed upon, by a large reward which
the India Company offers, to use methods of destroying them till they
have sustained some particular injury in their own family or kindred, and
their ideas of fatalism contribute to render them insensible to the risk.

TIGER-TRAPS.

Their traps, of which they can make variety, are very ingeniously
contrived. Sometimes they are in the nature of strong cages, with falling
doors, into which the beast is enticed by a goat or dog enclosed as a
bait; sometimes they manage that a large timber shall fall, in a groove,
across his back; he is noosed about the loins with strong rattans, or he
is led to ascend a plank, nearly balanced, which, turning when he is past
the centre, lets him fall upon sharp stakes prepared below. Instances
have occurred of a tiger being caught by one of the former modes, which
had many marks in his body of the partial success of this last expedient.
The escapes, at times, made from them by the natives are surprising, but
these accounts in general carry too romantic an air to admit of being
repeated as facts. The size and strength of the species which prevails on
this island are prodigious. They are said to break with a stroke of their
forepaw the leg of a horse or a buffalo; and the largest prey they kill
is without difficulty dragged by them into the woods. This they usually
perform on the second night, being supposed, on the first, to gratify
themselves with sucking the blood only. Time is by this delay afforded to
prepare for their destruction; and to the methods already enumerated,
beside shooting them, I should add that of placing a vessel of water,
strongly impregnated with arsenic, near the carcase, which is fastened to
a tree to prevent its being carried off: The tiger having satiated
himself with the flesh, is prompted to assuage his thirst with the
tempting liquor at hand, and perishes in the indulgence. Their chief
subsistence is most probably the unfortunate monkeys with which the woods
abound. They are described as alluring them to their fate, by a
fascinating power, similar to what has been supposed of the snake, and I
am not incredulous enough to treat the idea with contempt, having myself
observed that when an alligator, in a river, comes under an overhanging
bough of a tree, the monkeys, in a state of alarm and distraction, crowd
to the extremity, and, chattering and trembling, approach nearer and
nearer to the amphibious monster that waits to devour them as they drop,
which their fright and number renders almost unavoidable. These
alligators likewise occasion the loss of many inhabitants, frequently
destroying the people as they bathe in the river, according to their
regular custom, and which the perpetual evidence of the risk attending it
cannot deter them from. A superstitious idea of their sanctity also (or,
perhaps, of consanguinity, as related in the journal of the Endeavour's
voyage) preserves these destructive animals from molestation, although,
with a hook of sufficient strength, they may be taken without much
difficulty. A musket-ball appears to have no effect upon their
impenetrable hides.

