(*Footnote. Many attempts have been made by the English to bring to
perfection the manufacture of sugar and arrack from the canes; but the
expenses, particularly of the slaves, were always found to exceed the
advantages. Within these few years (about 1777) that the plantations and
works were committed to the management of Mr. Henry Botham, it has
manifestly appeared that the end is to be obtained by employing the
Chinese in the works of the field and allowing them a proportion of the
produce for their labour. The manufacture had arrived at considerable
perfection when the breaking out of war gave a check to its progress; but
the path is pointed out, and it may be worth pursuing. The sums of money
thrown into Batavia for arrack and sugar have been immense.)

SALT.

Salt is here, as in most other countries, an article of general
consumption. The demand for it is mostly supplied by cargoes imported,
but they also manufacture it themselves. The method is tedious. They
kindle a fire close to the sea-beach, and gradually pour upon it sea
water. When this has been continued for a certain time, the water
evaporating, and the salt being precipitated among the ashes, they gather
these in baskets, or in funnels made of the bark or leaves of trees, and
again pour seawater on them till the particles of salt are well
separated, and pass with the water into a vessel placed below to receive
them. This water, now strongly impregnated, is boiled till the salt
adheres in a thick crust to the bottom and sides of the vessel. In
burning a square fathom of firewood a skilful person procures about five
gallons of salt. What is thus made has so considerable a mixture of the
salt of the wood that it soon dissolves, and cannot be carried far into
the country. The coarsest grain is preferred.

ART OF MEDICINE.

The art of medicine among the Sumatrans consists almost entirely in the
application of simples, in the virtues of which they are well skilled.
Every old man and woman is a physician, and their rewards depend upon
their success; but they generally procure a small sum in advance under
the pretext of purchasing charms.* The mode of practice is either by
administering the juices of certain trees and herbs inwardly, or by
applying outwardly a poultice of leaves chopped small upon the breast or
part affected, renewing it as soon as it becomes dry. For internal pains
they rub oil on a large leaf of a stimulant quality, and, heating it
before the fire, clap it on the body of the patient as a blister, which
produces very powerful effects. Bleeding they never use, but the people
of the neighbouring island of Nias are famous for their skill in cupping,
which they practise in a manner peculiar to themselves.

