SMALLPOX.

The smallpox (katumbuhan) sometimes visits the island and makes terrible
ravages. It is regarded as a plague, and drives from the country
thousands whom the infection spares. Their method of stopping its
progress (for they do not attempt a cure) is by converting into a
hospital or receptacle for the rest that village where lie the greatest
number of sick, whither they send all who are attacked by the disorder
from the country round. The most effectual methods are pursued to prevent
any person's escape from this village, which is burnt to the ground as
soon as the infection has spent itself or devoured all the victims thus
offered to it. Inoculation was an idea long unthought of, and, as it
could not be universal, it was held to be a dangerous experiment for
Europeans to introduce it partially, in a country where the disorder
makes its appearance at distant intervals only, unless those periods
could be seized and the attempts made when and where there might be
well-founded apprehension of its being communicated in the natural way.
Such an opportunity presented itself in 1780, when great numbers of
people (estimated at a third of the population) were swept away in the
course of that and the two following years; whilst upon those under the
immediate influence of the English and Dutch settlements inoculation was
practised with great success. I trust that the preventive blessing of
vaccination has or will be extended to a country so liable to be
afflicted with this dreadful scourge. A distemper called chachar, much
resembling the smallpox, and in its first stages mistaken for it, is not
uncommon. It causes an alarm but does not prove mortal, and is probably
what we term the chickenpox.

VENEREAL DISEASE.

The venereal disease, though common in the Malay bazaars, is in the
inland country almost unknown. A man returning to his village with the
infection is shunned by the inhabitants as an unclean and interdicted
person. The Malays are supposed to cure it with the decoction of a
china-root, called by them gadong, which causes a salivation.

