GEOGRAPHY.

The ideas of geography among such of them as do not frequent the sea are
perfectly confined, or rather they entertain none. Few of them know that
the country they inhabit is an island, or have any general name for it.
Habit renders them expert in travelling through the woods, where they
perform journeys of weeks and months without seeing a dwelling. In places
little frequented, where they have occasion to strike out new paths (for
roads there are none), they make marks on trees for the future guidance
of themselves and others. I have heard a man say, "I will attempt a
passage by such a route, for my father, when living, told me that he had
left his tokens there." They estimate the distance of places from each
other by the number of days, or the proportion of the day, taken up in
travelling it, and not by measurement of the space. Their journey, or
day's walk, may be computed at about twenty miles; but they can bear a
long continuance of fatigue.

ASTRONOMY.

The Malays as well as the Arabs and other Mahometan nations fix the
length of the year at three hundred and fifty-four days, or twelve lunar
months of twenty-nine days and a half; by which mode of reckoning each
year is thrown back about eleven days. The original Sumatrans rudely
estimate their annual periods from the revolution of the seasons, and
count their years from the number of their crops of grain (taun padi); a
practice which, though not pretending to accuracy, is much more useful
for the general purposes of life than the lunar period, which is merely
adapted to religious observances. They as well as the Malays compute time
by lunations, but do not attempt to trace any relation or correspondence
between these smaller measures and the solar revolution. Whilst more
polished nations were multiplying mistakes and difficulties in their
endeavours to ascertain the completion of the sun's course through the
ecliptic, and in the meanwhile suffering their nominal seasons to become
almost the reverse of nature, these people, without an idea of
intercalation, preserved in a rude way the account of their years free
from essential, or at least progressive, error and the confusion which
attends it. The division of the month into weeks I believe to be unknown
except where it has been taught with Mahometanism; the day of the moon's
age being used instead of it where accuracy is required; nor do they
subdivide the day into hours. To denote the time of day at which any
circumstance they find it necessary to speak of happened, they point with
their finger to the height in the sky at which the sun then stood. And
this mode is the more general and precise as the sun, so near the
equator, ascends and descends almost perpendicularly, and rises and sets
at all seasons of the year within a few minutes of six o'clock. Scarcely
any of the stars or constellations are distinguished by them. They notice
however the planet Venus, but do not imagine her to be the same at the
different periods of her revolution when she precedes the rising, and
follows the setting sun. They are aware of the night on which the new
moon should make its appearance, and the Malays salute it with the
discharge of guns. They also know when to expect the returns of the
tides, which are at their height, on the south-western coast of the
island, when that luminary is in the horizon, and ebb as it rises. When
they observe a bright star near the moon (or rubbing against her, as they
express it), they are apprehensive of a storm, as European sailors
foretell a gale from the sharpness of her horns. These are both, in part,
the consequence of an unusual clearness in the air, which, proceeding
from an extraordinary alteration of the state of the atmosphere, may
naturally be followed by a violent rushing of the circumjacent parts to
restore the equilibrium, and thus prove the prognostic of high wind.
During an eclipse they make a loud noise with sounding-instruments to
prevent one luminary from devouring the other, as the Chinese, to
frighten away the dragon, a superstition that has its source in the
ancient systems of astronomy (particularly the Hindu) where the nodes of
the moon are identified with the dragon's head and tail. They tell of a
man in the moon who is continually employed in spinning cotton, but that
every night a rat gnaws his thread and obliges him to begin his work
afresh. This they apply as an emblem of endless and ineffectual labour,
like the stone of Sisyphus, and the sieves of the Danaides.

