With history and chronology the country people are but little acquainted,
the memory of past events being preserved by tradition only.

MUSIC.

They are fond of music and have many instruments in use among them, but
few, upon inquiry, appear to be original, being mostly borrowed from the
Chinese and other more eastern people; particularly the kalintang, gong,
and sulin. The violin has found its way to them from the westward. The
kalintang resembles the sticcado and the harmonica; the more common ones
having the cross-pieces, which are struck with two little hammers, of
split bamboo, and the more perfect of a certain composition of metal
which is very sonorous. The gongs, a kind of bell, but differing much in
shape and struck on the outside, are cast in sets regularly tuned to
thirds, fourth, fifth, and octave, and often serve as a bass, or under
part, to the kalintang. They are also sounded for the purpose of calling
together the inhabitants of the village upon any particular occasion; but
the more ancient and still common instrument for this use is a hollowed
log of wood named katut. The sulin is the Malayan flute. The country
flute is called serdum. It is made of bamboo, is very imperfect, having
but few stops, and resembles much an instrument described as found among
the people of Otaheite. A single hole underneath is covered with the
thumb of the left hand, and the hole nearest the end at which it is
blown, on the upper side, with a finger of the same hand. The other two
holes are stopped with the right-hand fingers. In blowing they hold it
inclined to the right side. They have various instruments of the drum
kind, particularly those called tingkah, which are in pairs and beaten
with the hands at each end. They are made of a certain kind of wood
hollowed out, covered with dried goat-skins, and laced with split
rattans. It is difficult to obtain a proper knowledge of their division
of the scale, as they know nothing of it in theory. The interval we call
an octave seems to be divided with them into six tones, without any
intermediate semitones, which must confine their music to one key. It
consists in general of but few notes, and the third is the interval that
most frequently occurs. Those who perform on the violin use the same
notes as in our division, and they tune the instrument by fifths to a
great nicety. They are fond of playing the octave, but scarcely use any
other chord. The Sumatran tunes very much resemble, to my ear, those of
the native Irish, and have usually, like them, a flat third: the same has
been observed of the music of Bengal, and probably it will be found that
the minor key obtains a preference amongst all people at a certain stage
of civilization.

