
CHAPTER 10.

LANGUAGES.
MALAYAN.
ARABIC CHARACTER USED.
LANGUAGES OF THE INTERIOR PEOPLE.
PECULIAR CHARACTERS.
SPECIMENS OF LANGUAGES AND OF ALPHABETS.

LANGUAGES.

Before I proceed to an account of the laws, customs, and manners of the
people of the island it is necessary that I should say something of the
different languages spoken on it, the diversity of which has been the
subject of much contemplation and conjecture.

MALAYAN.

The Malayan language, which has commonly been supposed original in the
peninsula of Malayo, and from thence to have extended itself throughout
the eastern islands, so as to become the lingua franca of that part of
the globe, is spoken everywhere along the coasts of Sumatra, prevails
without the mixture of any other in the inland country of Menangkabau and
its immediate dependencies, and is understood in almost every part of the
island. It has been much celebrated, and justly, for the smoothness and
sweetness of its sound, which have gained it the appellation of the
Italian of the East. This is owing to the prevalence of vowels and
liquids in the words (with many nasals which may be thought an objection)
and the infrequency of any harsh combination of mute consonants. These
qualities render it well adapted to poetry, which the Malays are
passionately addicted to.

SONGS.

They amuse all their leisure hours, including the greater portion of
their lives, with the repetition of songs which are, for the most part,
proverbs illustrated, or figures of speech applied to the occurrences of
life. Some that they rehearse, in a kind of recitative, at their bimbangs
or feasts, are historical love tales like our old English ballads, and
are often extemporaneous productions. An example of the former species is
as follows:

Apa guna passang palita,
Kallo tidah dangan sumbu'nia?
Apa guna bermine matta,
Kalla tidah dangan sunggu'nia?

What signifies attempting to light a lamp,
If the wick be wanting?
What signifies playing with the eyes,
If nothing in earnest be intended?

