It must be observed however that it often proves a very difficult matter
to trace the connexion between the figurative and the literal sense of
the stanza. The essentials in the composition of the pantun, for such
these little pieces are called, the longer being called dendang, are the
rhythmus and the figure, particularly the latter, which they consider as
the life and spirit of the poetry. I had a proof of this in an attempt
which I made to impose a pantun of my own composing on the natives as a
work of their countrymen. The subject was a dialogue between a lover and
a rich coy mistress: the expressions were proper to the occasion, and in
some degree characteristic. It passed with several, but an old lady who
was a more discerning critic than the others remarked that it was "katta
katta saja"--mere conversation; meaning that it was destitute of the
quaint and figurative expressions which adorn their own poetry. Their
language in common speaking is proverbial and sententious. If a young
woman prove with child before marriage they observe it is daulu buah,
kadian bunga--the fruit before the flower. Hearing of a person's death
they say, nen matti, matti; nen idup, bekraja: kallo sampi janji'nia, apa
buli buat?--Those who are dead, are dead; those who survive must work: if
his allotted time was expired, what resource is there? The latter phrase
they always make use of to express their sense of inevitability, and has
more force than any translation of it I can employ.

ARABIC CHARACTER USED BY MALAYS.

Their writing is in the Arabic character, with modifications to adapt
that alphabet to their language, and, in consequence of the adoption of
their religion from the same quarter, a great number of Arabic words are
incorporated with the Malayan. The Portuguese too have furnished them
with several terms, chiefly for such ideas as they have acquired since
the period of European discoveries to the eastward. They write on paper,
using ink of their own composition, with pens made of the twig of the
anau tree. I could never discover that the Malays had any original
written characters peculiar to themselves before they acquired those now
in use; but it is possible that such might have been lost, a fate that
may hereafter attend the Batta, Rejang, and others of Sumatra, on which
the Arabic daily makes encroachments. Yet I have had frequent occasion to
observe the former language written by inland people in the country
character; which would indicate that the speech is likely to perish
first. The Malayan books are very numerous, both in prose and verse. Many
of them are commentaries on the koran, and others romances or heroic
tales.

