The purest or most elegant Malayan is said, and with great appearance of
reason, to be spoken at Malacca. It differs from the dialect used in
Sumatra chiefly in this, that words, in the latter, made to terminate in
"o," are in the former, sounded as ending in "a." Thus they pronounce
lada (pepper) instead of lado. Those words which end with "k" in writing,
are, in Sumatra, always softened in speaking, by omitting it; as tabbe
bannia, many compliments, for tabbek banniak; but the Malaccans, and
especially the more eastern people, who speak a very broad dialect, give
them generally the full sound. The personal pronouns also differ
materially in the respective countries.

Attempts have been made to compose a grammar of this tongue upon the
principles on which those of the European languages are formed. But the
inutility of such productions is obvious. Where there is no inflexion of
either nouns or verbs there can be no cases, declensions, moods, or
conjugations. All this is performed by the addition of certain words
expressive of a determinate meaning, which should not be considered as
mere auxiliaries, or as particles subservient to other words. Thus, in
the instance of rumah, a house; deri pada rumah signifies from a house;
but it would be talking without use or meaning to say that deri pada is
the sign of the ablative case of that noun, for then every preposition
should equally require an appropriate case, and as well as of, to, and
from, we should have a case for deatas rumah, on top of the house. So of
verbs: kallo saya buli jalan, If I could walk: this may be termed the
preter-imperfect tense of the subjunctive or potential mood of the verb
jalan; whereas it is in fact a sentence of which jalan, buli, etc. are
constituent words. It is improper, I say, to talk of the case of a noun
which does not change its termination, or the mood of a verb which does
not alter its form. A useful set of observations might be collected for
speaking the language with correctness and propriety, but they must be
independent of the technical rules of languages founded on different
principles.*

