(*Footnote. I have ventured to make this attempt, and have also prepared
a Dictionary of the language which it is my intention to print with as
little delay as circUmstances will admit.)

INTERIOR PEOPLE USE LANGUAGES DIFFERENT FROM THE MALAYAN.

Beside the Malayan there are a variety of languages spoken in Sumatra
which however have not only a manifest affinity among themselves, but
also to that general language which is found to prevail in, and to be
indigenous to all the islands of the eastern sea; from Madagascar to the
remotest of Captain Cook's discoveries; comprehending a wider extent than
the Roman or any other tongue has yet boasted. Indisputable examples of
this connexion and similarity I have exhibited in a paper which the
Society of Antiquaries have done me the honour to publish in their
Archaeologia, Volume 6. In different places it has been more or less
mixed and corrupted, but between the most dissimilar branches an evident
sameness of many radical words is apparent, and in some, very distant
from each other in point of situation, as for instance the Philippines
and Madagascar, the deviation of the words is scarcely more than is
observed in the dialects of neighbouring provinces of the same kingdom.
To render this comparison of languages more extensive, and if possible to
bring all those spoken throughout the world into one point of view, is an
object of which I have never lost sight, but my hopes of completing such
a work are by no means sanguine.

PECULIAR WRITTEN CHARACTERS.

The principal of these Sumatran languages are the Botta, the Rejang, and
the Lampong, whose difference is marked not so much by the want of
correspondence in the terms as by the circumstance of their being
expressed in distinct and peculiar written characters. But whether this
apparent difference be radical and essential, or only produced by
accident and the lapse of time, may be thought to admit of doubt; and, in
order that the reader may be enabled to form his own judgment, a plate
containing the Alphabetical characters of each, with the mode of applying
the orthographical marks to those of the Rejang language in particular,
is annexed. It would indeed be extraordinary, and perhaps singular in the
history of human improvement, that divisions of people in the same
island, with equal claims to originality, in stages of civilization
nearly equal, and speaking languages derived from the same source, should
employ characters different from each other, as well as from the rest of
the world. It will be found however that the alphabet used in the
neighbouring island of Java (given by Corneille Le Brun), that used by
the Tagala people of the Philippines (given by Thevenot), and by the
Bugis people of Celebes (given by Captain Forrest), vary at least as much
from these and from each other as the Rejang from the Batta. The Sanskrit
scholar will at the same time perceive in several of them an analogy to
the rhythmical arrangement, terminating with a nasal, which distinguishes
the alphabet of that ancient language whose influence is known to have
been extensive in this quarter. In the country of Achin, where the
language differs considerably from the Malayan, the Arabic character has
nevertheless been adopted, and on this account it has less claim to
originality.

