GOVERNMENT.

Having endeavoured to trace the character of these people with as much
fidelity and accuracy as possible, I shall now proceed to give an account
of their government, laws, customs, and manners; and, in order to convey
to the reader the clearest ideas in my power, I shall develop the various
circumstances in such order and connection as shall appear best to answer
this intent, without confining myself, in every instance, to a rigid and
scrupulous arrangement under distinct heads.

REJANGS DIVIDED INTO TRIBES.

The Rejang people, whom, for reasons before assigned, I have fixed upon
for a standard of description, but which apply generally to the orang
ulu, or inhabitants of the inland country, are distinguished into tribes,
the descendants of different ancestors. Of these there are four
principal, who are said to trace their origin to four brothers, and to
have been united from time immemorial in a league offensive and
defensive; though it may be presumed that the permanency of this bond of
union is to be attributed rather to considerations of expediency
resulting from their situation than to consanguinity or any formal
compact.

THEIR GOVERNMENT.

The inhabitants live in villages, called dusun, each under the government
of a headman or magistrate, styled dupati, whose dependants are termed
his ana-buah, and in number seldom exceed one hundred. The dupatis
belonging to each river (for here, the villages being almost always
situated by the waterside, the names we are used to apply to countries or
districts are properly those of the rivers) meet in a judicial capacity
at the kwalo, where the European factory is established, and are then
distinguished by the name of proattin.

PANGERAN.

The pangeran (a Javanese title), or feudal chief of the country, presides
over the whole. It is not an easy matter to describe in what consists the
fealty of a dupati to his pangeran, or of his ana-buah to himself, so
very little in either case is practically observed. Almost without arts,
and with but little industry, the state of property is nearly equal among
all the inhabitants, and the chiefs scarcely differ but in title from the
bulk of the people.

