HIS AUTHORITY.

Their authority is no more than nominal, being without that coercive
power necessary to make themselves feared and implicitly obeyed. This is
the natural result of poverty among nations habituated to peace; where
the two great political engines of interest and military force are
wanting. Their government is founded in opinion, and the submission of
the people is voluntary. The domestic rule of a private family beyond a
doubt suggested first the idea of government in society, and, this people
having made but small advances in civil policy, theirs continues to
retain a strong resemblance of its original. It is connected also with
the principle of the feudal system, into which it would probably settle
should it attain to a greater degree of refinement. All the other
governments throughout the island are likewise a mixture of the
patriarchal and feudal; and it may be observed that, where a spirit of
conquest has reduced the inhabitants under the subjection of another
power, or has added foreign districts to their dominion, there the feudal
maxims prevail: where the natives, from situation or disposition, have
long remained undisturbed by revolutions, there the simplicity of
patriarchal rule obtains; which is not only the first and natural form of
government of all rude nations rising from imperceptible beginnings, but
is perhaps also the highest state of perfection at which they can
ultimately arrive. It is not in this art alone that we perceive the next
step from consummate refinement, leading to simplicity.

MUCH LIMITED.

The foundation of right to government among these people seems, as I
said, to be the general consent. If a chief exerts an undue authority, or
departs from their long established customs and usages, they conceive
themselves at liberty to relinquish their allegiance. A commanding
aspect, an insinuating manner, a ready fluency in discourse, and a
penetration and sagacity in unravelling the little intricacies of their
disputes, are qualities which seldom fail to procure to their possessor
respect and influence, sometimes perhaps superior to that of an
acknowledged chief. The pangean indeed claims despotic sway, and as far
as he can find the means scruples not to exert it; but, his revenues
being insufficient to enable him to keep up any force for carrying his
mandates into execution, his actual powers are very limited, and he has
seldom found himself able to punish a turbulent subject any otherwise
than by private assassination. In appointing the heads of dusuns he does
little more than confirm the choice already made among the inhabitants,
and, were he arbitrarily to name a person of a different tribe or from
another place, he would not be obeyed. He levies no tax, nor has any
revenue (what he derives from the India Company being out of the
question), or other emolument from his subjects than what accrues to him
from the determination of causes. Appeals lie to him in all cases, and
none of the inferior courts or assemblies of proattins are competent to
pronounce sentence of death. But, all punishments being by the laws of
the country commutable for fines, and the appeals being attended with
expense and loss of time, the parties generally abide by the first
decision. Those dusuns which are situated nearest to the residence of the
pangeran, at Sungey-lamo, acknowledge somewhat more of subordination than
the distant ones, which even in case of war esteem themselves at liberty
to assist or not, as they think proper, without being liable to
consequences. In answer to a question on this point, "we are his
subjects, not his slaves," replied one of the proattins. But from the
pangeran you hear a tale widely different. He has been known to say, in a
political conversation, "such and such dusuns there will be no trouble
with; they are my powder and shot;" explaining himself by adding that he
could dispose of the inhabitants, as his ancestors had done, to purchase
ammunition in time of war.

