GOVERNMENT IN PASSUMMAH.

In Passummah, which nearly borders upon Rejang, to the southward, there
appears some difference in the mode of government, though the same spirit
pervades both; the chiefs being equally without a regular coercive power,
and the people equally free in the choice of whom they will serve. This
is an extensive and comparatively populous country, bounded on the north
by that of Lamattang, and on the south-east by that of Lampong, the river
of Padang-guchi marking the division from the latter, near the sea-coast.
It is distinguished into Passummah lebbar, or the broad, which lies
inland, extending to within a day's journey of Muaro Mulang, on Palembang
River; and Passummah ulu Manna, which is on the western side of the range
of hills, whither the inhabitants are said to have mostly removed in
order to avoid the government of Palembang.

It is governed by four pangerans, who are independent of each other but
acknowledge a kind of sovereignty in the sultan of Palembang, from whom
they hold a chap (warrant) and receive a salin (investiture) on their
accession. This subordination is the consequence of the king of Bantam's
former influence over this part of the island, Palembang being a port
anciently dependent on him, and now on the Dutch, whose instrument the
sultan is. There is an inferior pangeran in almost every dusun (that
title being nearly as common in Passummah as dupati towards the
sea-coast) who are chosen by the inhabitants, and confirmed by the
superior pangeran, whom they assist in the determination of causes. In
the low country, where the pepper-planters reside, the title of kalippah
prevails; which is a corruption of the Arabic word khalifah, signifying a
vicegerent. Each of these presides over various tribes, which have been
collected at different times (some of them being colonists from Rejang,
as well as from a country to the eastward of them, named Haji) and have
ranged themselves, some under one and some under another chief; having
also their superior proattin, or pambarab, as in the northern districts.
On the rivers of Peeno, Manna, and Bankannon are two kalippahs
respectively, some of whom are also pangerans, which last seems to be
here rather a title of honour, or family distinction, than of magistracy.
They are independent of each other, owning no superior; and their number,
according to the ideas of the people, cannot be increased.

