If the father leaves a will, or declares before witnesses his intentions
relative to his effects or estate, his pleasure is to be followed in the
distribution of them amongst his children.

If he dies intestate and without declaring his intentions the male
children inherit, share and share alike, except that the house and pusako
(heirlooms, or effects on which, from various causes, superstitious value
is placed) devolve invariably to the eldest.

The mother (if by the mode of marriage termed jujur, which, with the
other legal terms, will be hereafter explained) and the daughters are
dependant on the sons.

If a man, married by semando, dies, leaving children, the effects remain
to the wife and children. If the woman dies, the effects remain to the
husband and children. If either dies leaving no children the family of
the deceased is entitled to half the effects.

OUTLAWRY.

Any person unwilling to be answerable for the debts or actions of his son
or other relation under his charge may outlaw him, by which he, from that
period, relinquishes all family connexion with him, and is no longer
responsible for his conduct.

The outlaw to be delivered up to the Resident or pangeran, accompanied
with his writ of outlawry, in duplicate, one copy to be lodged with the
Resident, and one with the outlaw's pambarab.

The person who outlaws must pay all debts to that day.

On amendment, the outlaw may be recalled to his family, they paying such
debts as he may have contracted whilst outlawed, and redeeming his writ
by payment of ten dollars and a goat, to be divided among the pangeran
and pambarabs.

If an outlaw commits murder he is to suffer death.

If murdered, a bangun, or compensation, of fifty dollars, is to be paid
for him to the pangeran.

If an outlaw wounds a person he becomes a slave to the Company or
pangeran for three years. If he absconds and is afterwards killed no
bangun is to be paid for him.

If an outlaw wounds a person and is killed in the scuffle no bangun is to
be paid for him.

