If the relations harbour an outlaw they are held willing to redeem him,
and become answerable for his debts.

THEFT.

A person convicted of theft pays double the value of the goods stolen,
with a fine of twenty dollars and a buffalo, if they exceed the value of
five dollars: if under five dollars the fine is five dollars and a goat;
the value of the goods still doubled.

All thefts under five dollars, and all disputes for property, or offences
to that amount, may be compromised by the proattins whose dependants are
concerned.

Neither assertion nor oath of the prosecutor are sufficient for
conviction without token (chino) of the robbery, namely, some article
recovered of the goods stolen; or evidence sufficient.

If any person, having permission to pass the night in the house of
another, shall leave it before daybreak, without giving notice to the
family, he shall be held accountable for any thing that may be that night
missing.

If a person passing the night in the house of another does not commit his
effects to the charge of the owner of it, the latter is not accountable
if they are stolen during the night. If he has given them in charge, and
the stranger's effects only are lost during the night, the owner of the
house becomes accountable. If effects both of the owner and lodger are
stolen, each is to make oath to the other that he is not concerned in the
robbery, and the parties put up with their loss, or retrieve it as they
can.

Oaths are usually made on the koran, or at the grave of an ancestor,
according as the Mahometan religion prevails more or less. The party
intended to be satisfied by the oath generally prescribes the mode and
purport of it.

BANGUN, OR COMPENSATION FOR MURDER.

The bangun or compensation for the murder of a pambarab is 500 dollars.
The bangun or compensation for the murder of an inferior proattin is 250
dollars.
The bangun or compensation for the murder of a common person, man or boy,
is 80 dollars.
The bangun or compensation for the murder of a common person, woman or girl,
is 150 dollars.
The bangun or compensation for the murder of the legitimate children or
wife of a pambarab is 250 dollars.

