Exclusive of the above, a fine of fifty dollars and a buffalo as tippong
bumi (expiation), is to be paid on the murder of a pambarab; of twenty
dollars and a buffalo on the murder of any other; which goes to the
pambarab and proattins.

The bangun of an outlaw is fifty dollars without tippong bumi.

No bangun is to be paid for a person killed in the commission of a robbery.

The bangun of pambarabs and proattins is to be divided between the pangeran
and pambarabs one half; and the family of the deceased the other half.

The bangun of private persons is to be paid to their families; deducting
the adat ulasan of ten per cent to the pambarabs and proattins.

If a man kills his slave he pays half his price as bangun to the
pangeran, and the tippong bumi to the proattins.

If a man kills his wife by jujur he pays her bangun to her family, or to
the proattins, according as the tali kulo subsists or not.

If a man kills or wounds his wife by semando he pays the same as for a
stranger.

If a man wounds his wife by jujur slightly he pays one tail or two
dollars.

If a man wounds his wife by jujur with a weapon and an apparent intention
of killing her he pays a fine of twenty dollars.

If the tali kulo (tie of relationship) is broken the wife's family can no
longer claim bangun or fine: they revert to the proattins.

If a pambarab wounds his wife by jujur he pays five dollars and a goat.

If a pambarab's daughter, married by jujur, is wounded by her husband he
pays five dollars and a goat.

For a wound occasioning the loss of an eye or limb or imminent danger of
death half the bangun is to be paid.

For a wound on the head the pampas or compensation is twenty dollars.

For other wounds the pampas from twenty dollars downwards.

If a person is carried off and sold beyond the hills the offender, if
convicted, must pay the bangun. If the person has been recovered previous
to the trial the offender pays half the bangun.

If a man kills his brother he pays to the proattins the tippong bumi.

