A planter in debt may engage in any work for hire that does not interfere
with the care of his garden, but must on no account mengiring, even
though his creditor offers to become answerable for the care of his
garden.

If a debtor mengiring absconds from his master (or creditor, who has a
right to his personal service) without leave of absence he is liable to
an increase of debt at the rate of three fanams per day. Females have
been hitherto charged six fanams, but are now put upon a footing the same
as the men.

If a debtor mengiring, without security, runs away, his debt is liable to
be doubled if he is absent above a week.

If a man takes a person mengiring, without security for the debt, should
the debtor die in that predicament the creditor loses his money, having
no claim on the relations for it.

If a person takes up money under promise of mengiring at a certain
period, should he not perform his agreement he must pay interest for the
money at one fanam per dollar per month.

If a person, security for another, is obliged to pay the debt he is
entitled to demand double from the debtor; but this claim to be moderated
according to circumstances.

If a person sues for a debt which is denied the onus probandi lies with
the plaintiff. If he fails in proof the defendant, on making oath to the
justness of his denial, shall be acquitted.

If a debtor taking care of a pepper garden, or one that gives half
produce to his creditor (be-blah), neglects it, the person in whose debt
he is must hire a man to do the necessary work; and the hire so paid
shall be added to the debt. Previous notice shall however be given to the
debtor, that he may if he pleases avoid the payment of the hire by doing
the work himself.

If a person's slave, or debtor mengiring, be carried off and sold beyond
the hills the offender is liable to the bangun, if a debtor, or to his
price, if a slave. Should the person be recovered the offender is liable
to a fine of forty dollars, of which the person that recovers him has
half, and the owner or creditor the remainder. If the offender be not
secured the reward shall be only five dollars to the person that brings
the slave, and three dollars the debtor, if on this side the hills; if
from beyond the hills the reward is doubled.

