The adat, or custom, of the semando malayo or mardiko, to be paid by the
husband to the wife's family upon the marriage taking place, is fixed at
twenty dollars and a buffalo, for such as can afford it; and at ten
dollars and a goat, for the poorer class of people.

Whatever may be acquired by either party during the subsistence of the
marriage becomes joint property, and they are jointly liable to debts
incurred, if by mutual consent. Should either contract debts without the
knowledge and consent of the other the party that contracts must alone
bear them in case of a divorce.

If either party insists upon, or both agree in it, a divorce must follow.
No other power can separate them. The effects, debts, and credits in all
cases to be equally divided. If the man insists upon the divorce he pays
a charo of twenty dollars to the wife's family, if he obtained her a
virgin; if a widow, ten dollars. If the woman insists on the divorce no
charo is to be paid. If both agree in it the man pays half the charo.

If a man married by semando dies--Vide Inheritance.

If a man carries off a woman with her consent, and is willing either to
pay her price at once by jujur, or marry her by semando, as the father or
relations please, they cannot reclaim the woman, and the marriage takes
place.

If a man carries off a girl under age (which is determined by her not
having her ears bored and teeth filed--bulum bertinde berdabong), though
with her own consent, he pays, exclusive of the adat jujur, or semando,
twenty dollars if she be the daughter of a pambarab, and ten dollars for
the daughter of any other, whether the marriage takes place or not.

If a risau, or person without property and character, carries off a woman
(though with her own consent) and can neither pay the jujur, nor adat
semando, the marriage shall not take place, but the man be fined five
dollars and a goat for misdemeanour. If she be under age, his fine ten
dollars and a goat.

If a man has but one daughter, whom, to keep her near him, he wishes to
give in marriage by semando; should a man carry her off, he shall not be
allowed to keep her by jujur, though he offer the money upon the spot. If
he refuses to marry her by semando, no marriage takes place, and he
incurs a fine to the father of ten dollars and a goat.

