If a man carries off a woman under pretence of marriage he must lodge her
immediately with some reputable family. If he carries her elsewhere, for
a single night he incurs a fine of fifty dollars, payable to her parents
or relations.

If a man carries off a virgin against her inclination (me-ulih) he incurs
a fine of twenty dollars and a buffalo: if a widow, ten dollars and a
goat, and the marriage does not take place. If he commits a rape, and the
parents do not choose to give her to him in marriage, he incurs a fine of
fifty dollars.

The adat libei, or custom of giving one woman in exchange for another
taken in marriage, being a modification of the jujur, is still admitted
of; but if the one be not deemed an equivalent for the other the
necessary compensation (as the pangalappang, for nonage) must be paid
upon the spot, or it is not recoverable by course of law. If a virgin is
carried off (te-lari gadis) and another is given in exchange for her, by
adat libei, twelve dollars must be paid with the latter as adat ka-salah.

A man married by ambel-anak may redeem himself and family on payment of
the jujur and adat of a virgin before-mentioned.

The charo of a jujur marriage is twenty-five dollars. If the jujur be not
yet paid in full and the man insists on a divorce he receives back what
he has paid, less twenty-five dollars. If the woman insists no charo can
be claimed by her relations. If the tali kulo is putus (broken) the wife
is the husband's property and he may sell her if he pleases.

If a man compels a female debtor of his to cohabit with him her debt, if
the fact be proved, is thereby discharged, if forty dollars and upwards:
if under forty the debt is cleared and he pays the difference. If she
accuses her master falsely of this offence her debt is doubled. If he
cohabits with her by her consent her parents may compel him to marry her,
either by jujur or semando, as they please.

If an unmarried woman proves with child the man against whom the fact is
proved must marry her; and they pay to the proattins a joint fine of
twenty dollars and a buffalo. This fine, if the parties agree to it, may
be levied in the country by the neighbouring proattins (without bringing
it before the regular court).

