If a woman proves with child by a relation within the prohibited degrees
they pay to the proattins a joint fine of twice fifty dollars and two
buffaloes (hukum duo akup).

A marriage must not take place between relations within the third degree,
or tungal nene. But there are exceptions for the descendants of females
who, passing into other families, become as strangers. Of two brothers,
the children may not intermarry. A sister's son may marry a brother's
daughter; but a brother's son may not marry a sister's daughter.

If relations within the prohibited degrees intermarry they incur a fine
of twice fifty dollars and two buffaloes, and the marriage is not valid.

On the death of a man married by jujur or purchase, any of his brothers,
the eldest in preference, if he pleases, may succeed to his bed. If no
brother chooses it they may give the woman in marriage to any relation on
the father's side, without adat, the person who marries her replacing the
deceased (mangabalu). If no relation takes her and she is given in
marriage to a stranger he may be either adopted into the family to
replace the deceased, without adot, or he may pay her jujur, or take her
by semando, as her relations please.

If a person lies with a man's wife by force he is deserving of death; but
may redeem his head by payment of the bangun, eighty dollars, to be
divided between the husband and proattins.

If a man surprises his wife in the act of adultery he may put both man
and woman to death upon the spot, without being liable to any bangun. If
he kills the man and spares his wife he must redeem her life by payment
of fifty dollars to the proattins. If the husband spares the offender, or
has only information of the fact from other persons, he may not
afterwards kill him, but has his remedy at law, the fine for adultery
being fifty dollars, to be divided between the husband and the proattins.
If he divorces his wife on this account he pays no charo.

If a younger sister be first married, the husband pays six dollars, adat
pelalu, for passing over the elder.

