MURDER, WOUNDING, AND ASSAULT.

A person convicted of murder shall pay to the relations of the deceased a
bangun of eighty-eight dollars, one suku, and seventy-five cash; to the
chiefs a fine of twenty-eight dollars; the bhasa lurah, which is a
buffalo and one hundred bamboos of rice; and the palantan, which is
fourteen dollars. If a son kills his father, or a father his son, or a
man kills his brother, he shall pay a fine of twenty-eight dollars, and
the bhasa lurah as above. If a man kills his wife the relations of the
deceased shall receive half a bangun: if any other kills a man's wife the
husband is entitled to the bangun, but shall pay out of it to the
relations of the wife ten dollars. In wounds a distinction is made in the
parts of the body. A wound in any part from the hips upward is esteemed
more considerable than in the lower parts. If a person wounds another
with sword, kris, kujur, or other weapon, and the wound is considerable,
so as to maim him, he shall pay to the person wounded a half-bangun, and
to the chiefs half of the fine for murder, with half of the bhasa lurah,
etc. If the wound is trifling but fetches blood he shall pay the person
wounded the tepong of fourteen dollars, and be fined fourteen dollars. If
a person wounds another with a stick, bamboo, etc., he shall simply pay
the tepong of fourteen dollars. If in any dispute between two people
krises are drawn the person who first drew his kris shall be fined
fourteen dollars. If any person having a dispute assembles together his
friends with arms, he shall be fined twenty-eight dollars.

MARRIAGE, DIVORCE, ETC.

MARRIAGE.

There are two modes of marriage used here: one by purchase, called jujur
or kulu, the other by adoption, called ambel anak. First of jujur.

JUJUR.

When a person is desirous of marrying he deposits a sum of money in the
hands of the father of the virgin, which is called the pagatan. This sum
is not esteemed part of the purchase, but as an equivalent for the
dandanan (paraphernalia, or ornamental apparel) of the bride, and is not
fixed but varies according to the circumstances and rank of the father.
The amount of the jujur is fixed at seventy dollars, including the hurup
niawa (price of life), forty dollars, a kris with gold about the head and
silver about the sheath, valued at ten dollars, and the meniudakan billi
or putus kulo (completion of purchase) at twenty. If a young man runs
away with a gadis or virgin without the consent of the father he does not
act contrary to the laws of the country; but if he refuses to pay the
full jujur on demand he shall be fined twenty­eight dollars. If the
father, having received the pagatan of one man, marries his daughter to
another before he returns the money to the first, he shall be fined
fourteen dollars, and the man who marries the daughter shall also be
fined fourteen dollars. In case of divorce (which may take place at the
will of either party) the dandanan brought by the wife is to be valued
and to be deducted from the purchase-money. If a divorce originates from
the man, and before the whole purchase­money is paid, the man shall
receive back what he has advanced after deducting the dandanan as above,
and fourteen dollars, called penusutan. If the divorce originates with
the woman the whole purchase-money shall be returned, and the children,
if any, remain with the father. If a divorce originates with the man,
when the whole purchase-money has been paid, or kulo sudah putus, he
shall not be entitled to receive back the purchase-money, but may recall
his wife whenever it shall be agreeable to him. An exact estimation is
made of the value of the woman's ornaments, and what are not restored
with her must be made good by the husband. If there are children they are
in this case to be divided, or if there be only one the husband is to
allow the woman fifteen dollars, and to take the child. Secondly, of
ambel anak.

