AMBEL ANAK.

When a man marries after the custom called ambel anak he pays no money to
the father of the bride, but becomes one of his family, and is entirely
upon the footing of a son, the father of his wife being thenceforward
answerable for his debts, etc., in the same manner as for his own
children. The married man becomes entirely separate from his original
family, and gives up his right of inheritance. It is however in the power
of the father of the wife to divorce from her his adopted son whenever he
thinks proper, in which case the husband is not entitled to any of the
children, nor to any effects other than simply the clothes on his back:
but if the wife is willing still to live with him, and he is able to
redeem her and the children by paying the father a hundred dollars, it is
not at the option of the father to refuse accepting this sum; and in that
case the marriage becomes a kulo or jujur, and is subject to the same
rules. If any unmarried woman is convicted of incontinence, or a married
woman of adultery, they shall pay to the chiefs a fine of forty dollars,
or in defect thereof become slaves, and the man with whom the crime was
committed shall pay a fine of thirty dollars, or in like manner become a
slave; and the parties between them shall also be at the expense of a
buffalo and a hundred bamboos of rice. This is called the gawe pati or
panjingan. If an unmarried woman proves with child and refuses to name
the man with whom she was guilty she shall pay the whole fine of seventy
dollars, and furnish the buffalo, etc. If a woman after marriage brings
forth a child before the due course of nature she shall be fined
twenty-eight dollars. If a man keeps a young woman in his house for any
length of time, and has a child by her without being regularly married,
he shall be fined twenty-eight dollars, and furnish a buffalo and a
hundred bamboos of rice. If a person detects the offenders in the act of
adultery, and, attempting to seize the man, is obliged to kill him in
self-defence, he shall not pay the bangun, nor be fined, but only pay the
bhasa lurah, which is a buffalo and a hundred bamboos of rice. On the
other hand, if the guilty person kills the one who attempts to seize him,
he shall be deemed guilty of murder and pay the bangun and fine
accordingly. If a man holding a woman as a pawn, or in the condition of
mengiring shall commit fornication with her, he shall forfeit his claim
to the debt, and the woman become free.

