(*Footnote. The form of taking an oath among the people of Madagascar
very nearly resembles the ceremonies used by the Sumatrans. There is a
strong similarity in the articles they swear on and in the circumstance
of their drinking the consecrated water.)

It is a striking circumstance that practices which boast so little of
reason in their foundation, which are in fact so whimsical and childish,
should yet be common to nations the most remote in situation, climate,
language, complexion, character, and everything that can distinguish one
race of people from another. Formed of like materials, and furnished with
like original sentiments, the uncivilized tribes of Europe and of
India trembled from the same apprehensions, excited by similar ideas, at
a time when they were ignorant, or even denied the possibility of each
other's existence. Mutual wrong and animosity, attended with disputes and
accusations, are not by nature confined to either description of people.
Each, in doubtful litigations, might seek to prove their innocence by
braving, on the justice of their cause, those objects which inspired
amongst their countrymen the greatest terror. The Sumatran, impressed
with an idea of invisible powers, but not of his own immortality, regards
with awe the supposed instruments of their agency, and swears on krises,
bullets, and gun barrels; weapons of personal destruction. The German
Christian of the seventh century, more indifferent to the perils of this
life, but not less superstitious, swore on bits of rotten wood and rusty
nails, which he was taught to revere as possessing efficacy to secure him
from eternal perdition.

INHERITANCE.

When a man dies his effects, in common course, descend to his male
children in equal shares; but if one among them is remarkable for his
abilities above the rest, though not the eldest, he usually obtains the
largest proportion, and becomes the head of the tungguan or house; the
others voluntarily yielding him the superiority. A pangeran of Manna left
several children; none of them succeeded to the title, but a name of
distinction was given to one of the younger, who was looked upon as chief
of the family after the father's decease. Upon asking the eldest how it
happened that the name of distinction passed over him and was conferred
on his younger brother, he answered with great naivete, "because I am
accounted weak and silly." If no male children are left and a daughter
only remains they contrive to get her married by the mode of ambel anak,
and thus the tungguan of the father continues. An equal distribution of
property among children is more natural and conformable to justice than
vesting the whole in the eldest son, as prevails throughout most part of
Europe; but where wealth consists in landed estate the latter mode,
beside favouring the pride of family, is attended with fewest
inconveniences. The property of the Sumatrans being personal merely, this
reason does not operate with them. Land is so abundant in proportion to
the population that they scarcely consider it as the subject of right any
more than the elements of air and water; excepting so far as in
speculation the prince lays claim to the whole. The ground however on
which a man plants or builds, with the consent of his neighbours, becomes
a species of nominal property, and is transferable; but as it costs him
nothing beside his labour it is only the produce which is esteemed of
value, and the compensation he receives is for this alone. A temporary
usufruct is accordingly all that they attend to, and the price, in case
of sale, is generally ascertained by the coconut, durian, and other
fruit-trees that have been planted on it; the buildings being for the
most part but little durable. Whilst any of those subsist the descendants
of the planter may claim the ground, though it has been for years
abandoned. If they are cut down he may recover damages; but if they have
disappeared in the course of nature the land reverts to the public.

