The custom of exacting the bangun for murder seems only designed with a
view of making a compensation to the injured family, and not of punishing
the offender. The word signifies awaking or raising up, and the deceased
is supposed to be replaced, or raised again to his family, in the payment
of a sum proportioned to his rank, or equivalent to his or her personal
value. The price of a female slave is generally more than that of a male,
and therefore, I heard a chief say, is the bangun of a woman more than
that of a man. It is upon this principle that their laws take no
cognizance of the distinction between a wilful murder and what we term
manslaughter. The loss is the same to the family, and therefore the
compensations are alike. A dupati of Laye, in an ill hour, stepped
unwarily across the mouth of a cannon at the instant it was fired off for
a salute, and was killed by the explosion, upon which his relations
immediately sued the sergeant of the country-guard, who applied the
match, for the recovery of the bangun; but they were cast, and upon these
grounds: that the dupati was instrumental in his own death, and that the
Company's servants, being amenable to other laws for their crimes, were
not, by established custom, subject to the bangun or other penalties
inflicted by the native chiefs, for accidents resulting from the
execution of their duty. The tippong bumi, expiation, or purification of
the earth from the stain it has received, was however gratuitously paid.
No plea was set up that the action was unpremeditated, and the event
chance-medley.

The introduction of this custom is beyond the extent of Sumatran
tradition, and has no connexion with, or dependence on, Mahometanism,
being established amongst the most inland people from time immemorial. In
early ages it was by no means confined to that part of the world. The
bangun is perfectly the same as the compensation for murder in the rude
institutions of our Saxon ancestors and other northern nations. It is the
eric of Ireland, and the apoinon of the Greeks. In the compartments of
the shield of Achilles Homer describes the adjudgment of a fine for
homicide. It would seem then to be a natural step in the advances from
anarchy to settled government, and that it can only take place in such
societies as have already a strong idea of the value of personal
property, who esteem its possession of the next importance to that of
life, and place it in competition with the strongest passion that seizes
the human soul.

