The compensation is so regularly established among the Sumatrans that any
other satisfaction is seldom demanded. In the first heat of resentment
retaliation is sometimes attempted, but the spirit soon evaporates, and
application is usually made, upon the immediate discovery of the fact, to
the chiefs of the country for the exertion of their influence to oblige
the criminal to pay the bangun. His death is then not thought of unless
he is unable, and his family unwilling, to raise the established sum.
Instances, it is true, occur in which the prosecutor, knowing the
European law in such case, will, from motives of revenge, urge to the
Resident the propriety of executing the offender rather than receive the
money; but if the latter is ready to pay it it is contrary to their laws
to proceed further. The degree of satisfaction that attends the payment
of the bangun is generally considered as absolute to the parties
concerned; they receive it as full compensation, and pretend to no
farther claim upon the murderer and his family. Slight provocations
however have been sometimes known to renew the feud, and there are not
wanting instances of a son's revenging his father's murder and willingly
refunding the bangun. When in an affray there happen to be several
persons killed on both sides, the business of justice is only to state
the reciprocal losses, in the form of an account current, and order the
balance to be discharged, if the numbers be unequal. The following is a
relation of the circumstances of one of these bloody feuds, which
happened whilst I was in the island, but which become every year more
rare where the influence of our government extends.

ACCOUNT OF A FEUD.

Raddin Siban was the head of a tribe in the district of Manna, of which
Pangeran Raja-Kalippah was the official chief; though by the customs of
the country he had no right of sovereignty over him. The pangeran's not
allowing him what he thought an adequate share of fines, and other
advantages annexed to his rank, was the foundation of a jealousy and ill
will between them, which an event that happened a few years since raised
to the highest pitch of family feud. Lessut, a younger brother of the
pangeran, had a wife who was very handsome, and whom Raddin Siban had
endeavoured to procure, whilst a virgin, for HIS younger brother, who was
in love with her: but the pangeran had contrived to circumvent him, and
obtained the girl for Lessut. However it seems the lady herself had
conceived a violent liking for the brother of Raddin Siban, who found
means to enjoy her after she was married, or was violently suspected so
to have done. The consequence was that Lessut killed him to revenge the
dishonour of his bed. Upon this the families were presently up in arms,
but the English Resident interfering preserved the peace of the country,
and settled the affair agreeably to the customs of the place by bangun
and fine. But this did not prove sufficient to extinguish the fury which
raged in the hearts of Raddin Siban's family, whose relation was
murdered. It only served to delay the revenge until a proper opportunity
offered of gratifying it. The people of the country being called together
on a particular occasion, the two inimical families were assembled, at
the same time, in Manna bazaar. Two younger brothers (they had been five
in all) of Raddin Siban, going to the cockpit, saw Raja Muda the next
brother of the pangeran, and Lessut his younger brother, in the open part
of a house which they passed. They quickly returned, drew their krises,
and attacked the pangeran's brothers, calling to them, if they were men,
to defend themselves. The challenge was instantly accepted, Lessut, the
unfortunate husband, fell; but the aggressors were both killed by Raja
Muda, who was himself much wounded. The affair was almost over before the
scuffle was perceived. The bodies were lying on the ground, and Raja Muda
was supporting himself against a tree which stood near the spot, when
Raddin Siban, who was in a house on the opposite side of the bazaar at
the time the affray happened, being made acquainted with the
circumstances, came over the way, with his lance in his hand. He passed
on the contrary side of the tree, and did not see Raja Muda, but began to
stab with his weapon the dead body of Lessut, in excess of rage, on
seeing the bloody remains of his two brothers. Just then, Raja Muda, who
was half dead, but had his kris in his hand, still unseen by Raddin
Siban, crawled a step or two and thrust the weapon into his side, saying
"Matti kau"--"die thou!" Raddin Siban spoke not a word, but put his hand
on the wound and walked across to the house from whence he came, at the
door of which he dropped down and expired. Such was the catastrophe. Raja
Muda survived his wounds, but being much deformed by them lives a
melancholy example of the effects of these barbarous feuds.

