PROOF OF THEFT.

In cases of theft the swearing a robbery against a person suspected is of
no effect, and justly, for were it otherwise nothing would be more common
than the prosecution of innocent persons. The proper proofs are either
seizure of the person in the fact before witnesses, or discovery of the
goods stolen in possession of one who can give no satisfactory account
how he came by them. As it frequently happens that a man finds part only
of what he had lost it remains with him, when the robbery is proved, to
ascertain the whole amount, by oath, which in that point is held
sufficient.

LAW RESPECTING DEBTS.

The law which renders all the members of a family reciprocally bound for
the security of each others' debts forms a strong connexion among them,
and occasions the elder branches to be particularly watchful of the
conduct of those for whose imprudence they must be answerable.

When a debtor is unable to pay what he owes, and has no relation or
friends capable of doing it for him, or when the children of a deceased
person do not find property enough to discharge the debts of their
parent, they are forced to the state which is called mengiring, which
simply means to follow or be dependent on, but here implies the becoming
a species of bond-slaves to the creditor, who allows them subsistence and
clothing but does not appropriate the produce of their labour to the
diminution of their debt. Their condition is better than that of pure
slavery in this, that the creditor cannot strike them, and they can
change their masters by prevailing on another person to pay their debt
and accept of their labour on the same terms. Of course they may obtain
their liberty if they can by any means procure a sum equal to their debt;
whereas a slave, though possessing ever so large property, has not the
right of purchasing his liberty. If however the creditor shall demand
formally the amount of his debt from a person mengiring, at three several
times, allowing a certain number of days between each demand, and the
latter is not able to persuade anyone to redeem him, he becomes, by the
custom of the country, a pure slave, upon the creditor's giving notice to
the chief of the transaction. This is the resource he has against the
laziness or untoward behaviour of his debtor, who might otherwise, in the
state of mengiring, be only a burden to him. If the children of a
deceased debtor are too young to be of service the charge of their
maintenance is added to the debt. This opens a door for many iniquitous
practices, and it is in the rigorous and frequently perverted exertion of
these rights which a creditor has over his debtor that the chiefs are
enabled to oppress the lower class of people, and from which abuses the
English Residents find it necessary to be the most watchful to restrain
them. In some cases one half of the produce of the labour is applied to
the reduction of the debt, and this situation of the insolvent debtor is
termed be-blah. Meranggau is the condition of a married woman who remains
as a pledge for a debt in the house of the creditor of her husband. If
any attempt should be made upon her person the proof of it annuls the
debt; but should she bring an accusation of that nature, and be unable to
prove it to the satisfaction of the court, and the man takes an oath in
support of his innocence, the debt must be immediately paid by the
family, or the woman be disposed of as a slave.

