When a man of one district or country has a debt owing to him from the
inhabitant of a neighbouring country, of which he cannot recover payment,
an usual resource is to seize on one or more of his children and carry
them off; which they call andak. The daughter of a Rejang dupati was
carried off in this manner by the Labun people. Not hearing for some time
from her father, she sent him cuttings of her hair and nails, by which
she intimated a resolution of destroying herself if not soon released.

SLAVERY.

The right of slavery is established in Sumatra, as it is throughout the
East, and has been all over the world; yet but few instances occur of the
country people actually having slaves; though they are common enough in
the Malayan, or sea-port towns. Their domestics and labourers are either
dependant relations, or the orang mengiring above described, who are
usually called debtors, but should be distinguished by the term of
insolvent debtors. The simple manners of the people require that their
servants should live, in a great measure, on a footing of equality with
the rest of the family, which is inconsistent with the authority
necessary to be maintained over slaves who have no principle to restrain
them but that of personal fear,* and know that their civil condition
cannot be altered for the worse.

(*Footnote. I do not mean to assert that all men in the condition of
slaves are devoid of principle: I have experienced the contrary, and
found in them affection and strict honesty: but that there does not
result from their situation as slaves any principle of moral rectitude;
whereas every other condition of society has annexed to it ideas of duty
and mutual obligation arising from a sense of general utility. That
sublime species of morality derived from the injunctions of religion it
is almost universally their fate to be likewise strangers to, because
slavery is found inconsistent with the spirit of the gospel, not merely
as inculcating philanthropy but inspiring a principle of equality amongst
mankind.)

