There is this advantage also, that when a debtor absconds they have
recourse to his relations for the amount of his debt, who, if unable to
pay it, must mengiring in his room; whereas when a slave makes his escape
the law can give no redress, and his value is lost to the owner. These
people moreover are from habit backward to strike, and the state of
slavery unhappily requires the frequent infliction of punishment in that
mode. A slave cannot possess independently any property; yet it rarely
happens that a master is found mean and sordid enough to despoil them of
the fruits of their industry; and their liberty is generally granted them
when in a condition to purchase it, though they cannot demand it of
right. It is nothing uncommon for those belonging to the Europeans to
possess slaves of their own, and to acquire considerable substance. Their
condition is here for the most part less unhappy than that of persons in
other situations of life. I am far from wishing to diminish the horror
that should ever accompany the general idea of a state which, whilst it
degrades the species, I am convinced is not necessary among mankind; but
I cannot help remarking, as an extraordinary fact, that if there is one
class of people eminently happy above all others upon earth it is the
body of Caffres, or negro slaves belonging to the India Company at
Bencoolen. They are well clothed and fed, and supplied with a proper
allowance of liquor; their work is by no means severe; the persons
appointed as their immediate overseers are chosen for their merit from
amongst themselves; they have no occasion of care or anxiety for the past
or future, and are naturally of a lively and open temper. The
contemplation of the effects which such advantages produce must afford
the highest gratification to a benevolent mind. They are usually seen
laughing or singing whilst at work, and the intervals allowed them are
mostly employed in dancing to their rude instrumental music, which
frequently begins at sunset and ceases only with the daylight that
recalls them to their labour. Since they were first carried thither, from
different parts of Africa and Madagascar, to the present hour, not so
much as the rumour of disturbance or discontent has ever been known to
proceed from them. They hold the natives of the island in contempt, have
a degree of antipathy towards them, and enjoy any mischief they can do
them; and these in their turn regard the Caffres as devils half
humanized.

