In lieu of paying the jujur a barter transaction, called libei, sometimes
takes place, where one gadis (virgin) is given in exchange for another;
and it is not unusual to borrow a girl for this purpose from a friend or
relation, the borrower binding himself to replace her or pay her jujur
when required, A man who has a son and daughter gives the latter in
exchange for a wife to the former. The person who receives her disposes
of her as his own child or marries her himself. A brother will give his
sister in exchange for a wife, or, in default of such, procure a cousin
for the purpose. If the girl given in exchange be under age a certain
allowance per annum is made till she becomes marriageable. Beguppok is a
mode of marriage differing a little from the common jujur, and probably
only taking place where a parent wants to get off a child labouring under
some infirmity or defect. A certain sum is in this case fixed below the
usual custom, which, when paid, is in full for her value, without any
appendages. In other cases likewise the jujur is sometimes lessened and
sometimes increased by mutual agreement; but on trials it is always
estimated at a hundred and twenty dollars. If a wife dies soon after
marriage, or at any time without children, the full jujur cannot be
claimed; it is reduced to eighty dollars; but should more than that have
been laid down in the interim there is no refunding. The jujur of a
widow, which is generally eighty dollars, without appendages, is again
reduced upon a third marriage, allowances being made for dilapidation. A
widow being with child cannot marry again till she is delivered, without
incurring a penalty. In divorces it is the same. If there be no
appearance of pregnancy she must yet abstain from making another choice
during the period of three months and ten days.

When the relations and friends of the man go in form to the parents of
the girl to settle the terms of the marriage they pay at that time the
adat besasala, or earnest, of six dollars generally; and these kill a
goat or a few fowls to entertain them. It is usually some space of time
(except in cases of telari gadis or elopement) after the payment of the
besasala, before the wedding takes place; but, when the father has
received that, he cannot give his daughter to any other person without
incurring a fine, which the young lady sometimes renders him liable to;
for whilst the old folk are planning a match by patutan, or regular
agreement between families, it frequently happens that miss disappears
with a more favoured swain and secures a match of her own choice. The
practice styled telari gadis is not the least common way of determining a
marriage, and from a spirit of indulgence and humanity, which few codes
can boast, has the sanction of the laws. The father has only the power
left of dictating the mode of marriage, but cannot take his daughter away
if the lover is willing to comply with the custom in such cases. The girl
must be lodged, unviolated, in the house of some respectable family till
the relations are advised of the enlevement and settle the terms. If
however upon immediate pursuit they are overtaken on the road, she may be
forced back, but not after she has taken sanctuary.

