The semando marriage is little known in Passummah. I recollect that a
pangeran of Manna, having lost a son by a marriage of this kind with a
Malay woman, she refused upon the father's death to let the boy succeed
to his dignities, and at the same time become answerable for his debts,
and carried him with her from the country; which was productive of much
confusion. The regulations there in respect to incontinence have much
severity, and fall particularly hard on the girl's father, who not only
has his daughter spoiled but must also pay largely for her frailty. To
the northward the offence is not punished with so much rigour, yet the
instances are there said to be rarer, and marriage is more usually the
consequence. In other respects the customs of Passummah and Rejang are
the same in these matters.

RITES OF MARRIAGE.

The rites of marriage, nikah (from the Arabian), consist simply in
joining the hands of the parties and pronouncing them man and wife,
without much ceremony excepting the entertainment which is given on the
occasion. This is performed by one of the fathers or the chief of the
dusun, according to the original customs of the country; but where
Mahometanism has found its way, a priest or imam executes the business.

COURTSHIP.

But little apparent courtship precedes their marriages. Their manners do
not admit of it, the bujang and gadis (youth of each sex) being carefully
kept asunder, and the latter seldom trusted from under the wing of their
mothers. Besides, courtship with us includes the idea of humble entreaty
on the man's side, and favour and condescension on the part of the woman,
who bestows person and property for love. The Sumatran on the contrary,
when he fixes his choice and pays all that he is worth for the object of
it, may naturally consider the obligation on his side. But still they are
not without gallantry. They preserve a degree of delicacy and respect
towards the sex, which might justify their retorting on many of the
polished nations of antiquity the epithet of barbarians. The
opportunities which the young people have of seeing and conversing with
each other are at the bimbangs, or public festivals, held at the balei,
or town hall of the dusun. On these occasions the unmarried people meet
together and dance and sing in company. It may be supposed that the young
ladies cannot be long without their particular admirers. The men, when
determined in their regards, generally employ an old woman as their
agent, by whom they make known their sentiments and send presents to the
female of their choice. The parents then interfere and, the preliminaries
being settled, a bimbang takes place.

