SINGING.

Dancing is not the only amusement on these occasions. A gadis sometimes
rises and, leaning her face on her arm, supporting herself against a
pillar, or the shoulder of one of her companions, with her back to the
audience, begins a tender song. She is soon taken up and answered by one
of the bujangs in company, whose greatest pretensions to gallantry and
fashion are founded on an adroitness at this polite accomplishment. The
uniform subject on such occasions is love, and, as the words are
extempore, there are numberless degrees of merit in the composition,
which is sometimes surprisingly well turned, quaint, and even witty.
Professed story-tellers are sometimes introduced, who are raised on a
little stage and during several hours arrest the attention of their
audience by the relation of wonderful and interesting adventures. There
are also characters of humour amongst them who, by buffoonery, mimicry,
punning, repartee, and satire (rather of the sardonic kind) are able to
keep the company in laughter at intervals during the course of a night's
entertainment. The assembly seldom breaks up before daylight, and these
bimbangs are often continued for several days and nights together till
their stock of provisions is exhausted. The young men frequent them in
order to look out for wives, and the lasses of course set themselves off
to the best advantage.

DRESSES.

They wear their best silken dresses, of their own weaving; as many
ornaments of filigree as they possess; silver rings upon their arms and
legs; and earrings of a particular construction. Their hair is variously
adorned with flowers and perfumed with oil of benzoin. Civet is also in
repute, but more used by the men.

COSMETIC USED, AND MODE OF PREPARING IT.

To render their skin fine, smooth, and soft they make use of a white
cosmetic called pupur. The mode of preparing it is as follows. The basis
is fine rice, which is a long time steeped in water and let to ferment,
during which process the water becomes of a deep red colour and highly
putrid, when it is drained off, and fresh added successively until the
water remains clear, and the rice subsides in the form of a fine white
paste. It is then exposed to the sun to dry, and, being reduced to a
powder, they mix with it ginger, the leaves of a plant called by them
dilam, and by Europeans patch-leaf (Melissa lotoria, R.), which gives to
it a peculiar smell, and also, as is supposed, a cooling quality. They
add likewise the flowers of the jagong (maize); kayu chendana
(sandalwood); and the seeds of a plant called there kapas antu
(fairy-cotton), which is the Hibiscus abelmoschus, or musk seed. All
these ingredients, after being moistened and well mixed together, are
made up into little balls, and when they would apply the cosmetic these
are diluted with a drop of water, rubbed between the hands, and then on
the face, neck, and shoulders. They have an apprehension, probably well
founded, that a too abundant or frequent application will, by stopping
the pores of the skin, bring on a fever. It is used with good effect to
remove that troublesome complaint, so well known to Europeans in India,
by the name of the prickly heat; but it is not always safe for strangers
thus to check the operations of nature in a warm climate. The Sumatran
girls, as well as our English maidens, entertain a favourable opinion of
the virtues of morning dew as a beautifier, and believe that by rubbing
it to the roots of the hair it will strengthen and thicken it. With this
view they take pains to catch it before sunrise in vessels as it falls.

