CONNEXION BETWEEN POLYGAMY AND PURCHASE OF WIVES.

But from whatever source we derive polygamy its prevalence seems to be
universally attended with the practice of giving a valuable consideration
for the woman, instead of receiving a dowry with her. This is a natural
consequence. Where each man endeavours to engross several, the demand for
the commodity, as a merchant would express it, is increased, and the
price of course enhanced. In Europe on the contrary, where the demand is
small; whether owing to the paucity of males from continual diminution;
their coldness of constitution, which suffers them rather to play with
the sentimental than act from the animal passion; their corruption of
manners leading them to promiscuous concubinage; or, in fine, the
extravagant luxury of the times, which too often renders a family an
insupportable burden--whatever may be the cause it becomes necessary, in
order to counteract it and produce an additional incitement to the
marriage state, that a premium be given with the females. We find in the
history of the earliest ages of the world that, where a plurality of
women was allowed of, by law or custom, they were obtained by money or
service. The form of marriage by semando among the Malays, which admits
but of one partner, requires no sum to be paid by the husband to the
relations of the wife except a trifle, by way of token, or to defray the
expenses of the wedding-feast. The circumstance of the rejangs confining
themselves to one, and at the same time giving a price for their wives,
would seem an exception to the general rule laid down; but this is an
accidental and perhaps temporary restraint, arising, it may be, from the
European influence, which tends to make them regular and industrious, but
keeps them poor: affords the means of subsistence to all, but the
opportunity of acquiring riches to few or none. In their genuine state
war and plunder caused a rapid fluctuation of property; the little wealth
now among them, derived mostly from the India Company's expenditure,
circulates through the country in an equal stream, returning chiefly,
like the water exhaled in vapours from the sea, to its original source.
The custom of giving jujurs had most probably its foundation in polygamy;
and the superstructure subsists, though its basis is partly mouldered
away; but, being scarcely tenantable, the inhabitants are inclined to
quit, and suffer it to fall to the ground. Moderation in point of women
destroying their principle, the jujurs appear to be devoid of policy.
Open a new spring of luxury, and polygamy, now confined to a few
individuals amongst the chiefs, will spread throughout the people. Beauty
will be in high request; each fair one will be sought for by many
competitors; and the payment of the jujur be again esteemed a reasonable
equivalent for possession. Their acknowledging the custom under the
present circumstances to be a prejudicial one, so contrary to the spirit
of eastern manners, which is ever marked with a blind veneration for the
establishments of antiquity, contributes to strengthen considerably the
opinion I have advanced.

