TOBACCO.

Beside the mode before-mentioned of enjoying the flavour of tobacco it is
also smoked by the natives and for this use--after shredding it fine
whilst green and drying it well it is rolled up in the thin leaves of a
tree, and is in that form called roko, a word they appear to have
borrowed from the Dutch. The rokos are carried in the betel-box, or more
commonly under the destar or handkerchief which, in imitation of a
turband, surrounds the head. Much tobacco is likewise imported from China
and sells at a high price. It seems to possess a greater pungency than
the Sumatran plant, which the people cultivate for their own use in the
interior parts of the island.

EMBLEMATIC PRESENTS.

The custom of sending emblematical presents in order to make known, in a
covert manner, the birth, progress, or change of certain affections of
the mind, prevails here, as in some other parts of the East; and not only
flowers of various kinds have their appropriate meaning, but also
cayenne-pepper, betel-leaf, salt, and other articles are understood by
adepts to denote love, jealousy, resentment, hatred, and other strong
feelings.

ORATORY.

The Sumatrans in general are good speakers. The gift of oratory seems
natural to them. I knew many among them whose harangues I have listened
to with pleasure and admiration. This may be accounted for perhaps from
the constitution of their government, which being far removed from
despotism seems to admit, in some degree, every member of the society to
a share in the public deliberations. Where personal endowments, as has
been observed, will often raise a private man to a share of importance in
the community,superior to that of a nominal chief, there is abundant
inducement for the acquisition of these valuable talents. The forms of
their judicial proceedings likewise, where there are no established
advocates and each man depends upon his own or his friend's abilities for
the management of his cause, must doubtless contribute to this habitual
eloquence. We may add to these conjectures the nature of their domestic
manners, which introduce the sons at an early period of life into the
business of the family, and the counsels of their elders. There is little
to be perceived among them of that passion for childish sports which
marks the character of our boys from the seventh to the fourteenth year.
In Sumatra you may observe infants, not exceeding the former age, full
dressed and armed with a kris, seated in the circle of the old men of the
dusun, and attending to their debates with a gravity of countenance not
surpassed by their grandfathers. Thus initiated they are qualified to
deliver an opinion in public at a time of life when an English schoolboy
could scarcely return an answer to a question beyond the limits of his
grammar or syntax, which he has learned by rote. It is not a little
unaccountable that this people, who hold the art of speaking in such high
esteem, and evidently pique themselves on the attainment of it, should
yet take so much pains to destroy the organs of speech in filing down and
otherwise disfiguring their teeth; and likewise adopt the uncouth
practice of filling their mouths with betel whenever they prepare to hold
forth. We must conclude that it is not upon the graces of elocution they
value an orator, but his artful and judicious management of the subject
matter; together with a copiousness of phrase, a perspicuity of thought,
an advantageous arrangement, and a readiness, especially, at unravelling
the difficulties and intricacies of their suits.

