CHILD-BEARING.

The curse entailed on women in the article of child-bearing does not fall
so heavy in this as in the northern countries. Their pregnancy scarcely
at any period prevents their attendance on the ordinary domestic duties;
and usually within a few hours after their delivery they walk to the
bathing-place, at a small distance from the house. The presence of a sage
femme is often esteemed superfluous. The facility of parturition may
probably be owing to the relaxation of the frame from the warmth of the
climate; to which cause also may be attributed the paucity of children
borne by the Sumatran women and the early decay of their beauty and
strength. They have the tokens of old age at a season of life when
European women have not passed their prime. They are like the fruits of
the country, soon ripe and soon decayed. They bear children before
fifteen, are generally past it at thirty, and grey-headed and shrivelled
at forty. I do not recollect hearing of any woman who had six children
except the wife of Raddin of Madura, who had more; and she, contrary to
the universal custom, did not give suck to hers.

TREATMENT OF CHILDREN.

Mothers carry the children not on the arm, as our nurses do, but
straddling on the hip, and usually supported by a cloth which ties in a
knot on the opposite shoulder. This practice I have been told is common
in some parts of Wales. It is much safer than the other method, less
tiresome to the nurse, and the child has the advantage of sitting in a
less constrained posture: but the defensive armour of stays, and
offensive weapons called pins, might be some objection to the general
introduction of the fashion in England. The children are nursed but
little, not confined by any swathing or bandages, and, being suffered to
roll about the floor, soon learn to walk and shift for themselves. When
cradles are used they are swung suspended from the ceiling of the rooms.

AGE OF THE PEOPLE.

The country people can very seldom give an account of their age, being
entirely without any species of chronology. Among those country people
who profess themselves Mahometans to very few is the date of the Hejra
known; and even of those who in their writings make use of it not one in
ten can pronounce in what year of it he was born. After a few taun padi
(harvests) are elapsed they are bewildered in regard to the date of an
event, and only guess at it from some contemporary circumstance of
notoriety, as the appointment of a particular dupati, the incursion of a
certain enemy, or the like. As far as can be judged from observation it
would seem that not a great proportion of the men attain to the age of
fifty, and sixty years is accounted a long life.

