(*Footnote. The above ceremonies (with the exception of the last) are
briefly described in the following lines, extracted from a Malayan poem.

Setelah sudah de tangisi, nia
Lalu de kubur de tanamkan 'nia
De ambel koran de ajikan 'nia
Sopaya lepas deri sangsara 'nia
Mengaji de kubur tujuh ari
Setelah de khatam tiga kali
Sudah de tegga batu sakali
Membayer utang pada si-mati.)

RELIGION.

In works descriptive of the manners of people little known to the world
the account of their religion usually constitutes an article of the first
importance. Mine will labour under the contrary disadvantage. The ancient
and genuine religion of the Rejangs, if in fact they ever had any, is
scarcely now to be traced; and what principally adds to its obscurity,
and the difficulty of getting information on the subject, is that even
those among them who have not been initiated in the principles of
Mahometanism yet regard those who have as persons advanced a step in
knowledge beyond them, and therefore hesitate to own circumstantially
that they remain still unenlightened. Ceremonies are fascinating to
mankind, and without comprehending with what views they were instituted
the profanum vulgus naturally give them credit for something mysterious
and above their capacities, and accordingly pay them a tribute of
respect. With Mahometanism a more extensive field of knowledge (I speak
in comparison) is open to its converts, and some additional notions of
science are conveyed. These help to give it importance, though it must be
confessed they are not the most pure tenets of that religion which have
found their way to Sumatra; nor are even the ceremonial parts very
scrupulously adhered to. Many who profess to follow it give themselves
not the least concern about its injunctions, or even know what they
require. A Malay at Manna upbraided a countryman with the total ignorance
of religion his nation laboured under. "You pay a veneration to the tombs
of your ancestors: what foundation have you for supposing that your dead
ancestors can lend you assistance?" "It may be true," answered the other,
"but what foundation have you for expecting assistance from Allah and
Mahomet?" "Are you not aware, replied the Malay, that it is written in a
Book? Have you not heard of the Koran?" The native of Passummah, with
conscious inferiority, submitted to the force of this argument.

