
CHAPTER 16.

THE COUNTRY OF LAMPONG AND ITS INHABITANTS.
LANGUAGE.
GOVERNMENT.
WARS.
PECULIAR CUSTOMS.
RELIGION.

Having thus far spoken of the manners and customs of the Rejangs more
especially, and adverted, as occasion served, to those of the Passummah
people, who nearly resemble them, I shall now present a cursory view of
those circumstances in which their southern neighbours, the inhabitants
of the Lampong country, differ from them, though this dissimilitude is
not very considerable; and shall add such information as I have been
enabled to obtain respecting the people of Korinchi and other tribes
dwelling beyond the ranges of hills which bound the pepper-districts.

LIMITS OF THE LAMPONG COUNTRY.

By the Lampong country is understood a portion of the southern extreme of
the island, beginning, on the west coast, at the river of Padang-guchi,
which divides it from Passummah, and extending across as far as
Palembang, on the north-east side, at which last place the settlers are
mostly Javans. On the south and east sides it is washed by the sea,
having several ports in the Straits of Sunda, particularly Keysers and
Lampong Bays; and the great river Tulang-bawang runs through the heart of
it, rising from a considerable lake between the ranges of mountains. That
division which is included by Padang-guchi, and a place called Nassal, is
distinguished by the name of Briuran, and from thence southward to Flat
Point, by that of Laut-Kawur; although Kawur, properly so called, lies in
the northern division.

TULANG BAWANG RIVER.

Upon the Tulang-bawang, at a place called Mangala, thirty-six leagues
from its mouth, the Dutch have a fortified post. There also the
representative of the king of Bantam, who claims the dominion of the
whole country of Lampong, has his residence, the river Masusi, which runs
into the former, being the boundary of his territories and those of the
sultan of Palembang. In the neighbourhood of these rivers the land is so
low as to be overflowed in the rainy season, or months of January and
February, when the waters have been known to rise many feet in the course
of a few hours, the villages, situated on the higher spots, appearing as
islands. The houses of those immediately on the banks are built on piles
of ironwood timber, and each has before it a floating raft for the
convenience of washing. In the western parts, towards Samangka, on the
contrary, the land is mountainous, and Keyser's Peak, as well as Pugong,
are visible to a great distance at sea.

