WARS.

The Javanese banditti, as has been observed, often advance into the
country, and commit depredations on the inhabitants, who are not, in
general, a match for them. They do not make use of firearms. Beside the
common weapons of the island they fight with a long lance which is
carried by three men, the foremost guiding the point and covering himself
and his companions with a large shield. A compact body thus armed would
have been a counterpart of the Macedonian phalanx, but can prove, I
should apprehend, of but little use among a people with whom war is
carried on in a desultory manner, and more in the way of ambuscade than
of general engagement, in which alone troops so armed could act with
effect.

Inland of Samangka, in the Straits of Sunda, there is a district, say the
Lampongs, inhabited by a ferocious people called orang Abung, who were a
terror to the neighbouring country until their villages were destroyed
some years ago by an expedition from the former place. Their mode of
atoning for offences against their own community, or, according to a
Malayan narrative in my possession, of entitling themselves to wives, was
by bringing to their dusuns the heads of strangers. The account may be
true, but without further authentication such stories are not to be too
implicitly credited on the faith of a people who are fond of the
marvellous and addicted to exaggeration. Thus they believed the
inhabitants of the island Engano to be all females, who were impregnated
by the wind, like the mares in Virgil's Georgics.

MANNERS.

The manners of the Lampongs are more free, or rather licentious, than
those of any other native Sumatrans. An extraordinary liberty of
intercourse is allowed between the young people of different sexes, and
the loss of female chastity is not a very uncommon consequence. The
offence is there however thought more lightly of, and instead of
punishing the parties, as in Passummah and elsewhere, they prudently
endeavour to conclude a legal match between them. But if this is not
effected the lady still continues to wear the insignia of virginity, the
fillet and arm-rings, and takes her place as such at festivals. It is not
only on these public occasions that the young men and women have
opportunities of forming arrangements, as in most other parts of the
island. They frequently associate together at other times; and the former
are seen gallantly reclining in the maiden's lap, whispering soft
nonsense, whilst she adjusts and perfumes his hair, or does a friendly
office of less delicacy to a European apprehension. At bimbangs the women
often put on their dancing dress in the public hall, letting that garment
which they mean to lay aside dexterously drop from under, as the other
passes over the head, but sometimes, with an air of coquetry, displaying
as if by chance enough to warm youthful imaginations. Both men and women
anoint themselves before company when they prepare to dance; the women
their necks and arms, and the men their breasts. They also paint each
others faces; not, seemingly, with a view of heightening or imitating the
natural charms, but merely as matter of fashion; making fantastic spots
with the finger on the forehead, temples, and cheeks, of white, red,
yellow, and other hues. A brass salver (tallam) covered with little china
cups, containing a variety of paints, is served up for this purpose.

