RECEPTION OF STRANGERS.

Abundantly more ceremony is used among these people at interviews with
strangers than takes place in the countries adjacent to them. Not only
the chief person of a party travelling, but every one of his attendants,
is obliged, upon arriving at a town, to give a formal account of their
business, or occasion of coming that way. When the principal man of the
dusun is acquainted by the stranger with the motives of his journey he
repeats his speech at full length before he gives an answer; and if it is
a person of great consequence, the words must pass through two or three
mouths before they are supposed to come with sufficient ceremony to his
ears. This in fact has more the air of adding to his own importance and
dignity than to that of the guest; but it is not in Sumatra alone that
respect is manifested by this seeming contradiction.

The terms of the jujur, or equivalent for wives, is the same here,
nearly, as with the Rejangs. The kris-head is not essential to the
bargain, as among the people of Passummah. The father of the girl never
admits of the putus tali kulo, or whole sum being paid, and thereby
withholds from the husband, in any case, the right of selling his wife,
who, in the event of a divorce, returns to her relations. Where the putus
tali is allowed to take place, he has a property in her, little differing
from that of a slave, as formerly observed. The particular sums which
constitute the jujur are less complex here than at other places. The
value of the maiden's golden trinkets is nicely estimated, and her jujur
regulated according to that and the rank of her parents. The semando
marriage scarcely ever takes place but among poor people, where there is
no property on either side, or in the case of a slip in the conduct of
the female, when the friends are glad to make up a match in this way
instead of demanding a price for her. Instances have occurred however of
countrymen of rank affecting a semando marriage in order to imitate the
Malayan manners; but it has been looked upon as improper and liable to
create confusion.

