The fines and compensation for murder are in every respect the same as in
the countries already described.

RELIGION.

The Mahometan religion has made considerable progress amongst the
Lampongs, and most of their villages have mosques in them: yet an
attachment to the original superstitions of the country induces them to
regard with particular veneration the ancient burying-places of their
fathers, which they piously adorn and cover in from the weather.

SUPERSTITIOUS OPINIONS.

In some parts, likewise, they superstitiously believe that certain trees,
particularly those of a venerable appearance (as an old jawi-jawi or
banyan tree) are the residence, or rather the material frame of spirits
of the woods; an opinion which exactly answers to the idea entertained by
the ancients of the dryads and hamadryads. At Benkunat in the Lampong
country there is a long stone, standing on a flat one, supposed by the
people to possess extraordinary power or virtue. It is reported to have
been once thrown down into the water and to have raised itself again to
its original position, agitating the elements at the same time with a
prodigious storm. To approach it without respect they believe to be the
source of misfortune to the offender.

The inland people of that country are said to pay a kind of adoration to
the sea, and to make to it an offering of cakes and sweetmeats on their
beholding it for the first time, deprecating its power of doing them
mischief. This is by no means surprising when we consider the natural
proneness of unenlightened mankind to regard with superstitious awe
whatever has the power of injuring them without control, and particularly
when it is attended with any circumstances mysterious and inexplicable to
their understandings. The sea possesses all these qualities. Its
destructive and irresistible power is often felt, and especially on the
coasts of India where tremendous surfs are constantly breaking on the
shore, rising often to their greatest degree of violence without any
apparent external cause. Add to this the flux and reflux and perpetual
ordinary motion of that element, wonderful even to philosophers who are
acquainted with the cause, unaccountable to ignorant men, though long
accustomed to the effects; but to those who only once or twice in their
lives have been eyewitnesses to the phenomena, supernatural and divine.
It must not however be understood that anything like a regular worship is
paid to the sea by these people, any more than we should conclude that
people in England worship witches when they nail a horseshoe on the
threshold to prevent their approach, or break the bottoms of eggshells to
hinder them from sailing in them. It is with the inhabitants of Lampong
no more than a temporary sentiment of fear and respect, which a little
familiarity soon effaces. Many of them indeed imagine it endowed with a
principle of voluntary motion. They tell a story of an ignorant fellow
who, observing with astonishment its continual agitation, carried a
vessel of sea water with him, on his return to the country, and poured it
into a lake, in full expectation of seeing it perform the same fanciful
motions he had admired it for in its native bed.*

