The latter account is more particular, and appears of modern date.

They held the caiman, or alligator, in great reverence, and when they saw
him they called him nono, or grandfather, praying with great tenderness
that he would do them no harm, and to this end, offered him of whatever
they had in their boats, throwing it into the water. There was not an old
tree to which they did not offer divine worship, especially that called
balete; and even at this time they have some respect for them. Beside
these they had certain idols inherited from their ancestors, which the
Tagalas called Anita, and the Bisayans, Divata. Some of these were for
the mountains and plains, and they asked their leave when they would pass
them: others for the corn fields, and to these they recommend them, that
they might be fertile, placing meat and drink in the fields for the use
of the Anitos. There was one, of the sea, who had care of their fishing
and navigation; another of the house, whose favour they implored at the
birth of a child, and under whose protection they placed it. They made
Anitos also of their deceased ancestors, and to these were their first
invocations in all difficulties and dangers. They reckoned amongst these
beings, all those who were killed by lightning or alligators, or had any
disastrous death, and believed that they were carried up to the happy
state, by the rainbow, which they call Balan-gao. In general they
endeavoured to attribute this kind of divinity to their fathers, when
they died in years, and the old men, vain with this barbarous notion,
affected in their sickness a gravity and composure of mind, as they
conceived, more than human, because they thought themselves commencing
Anitos. They were to be interred at places marked out by themselves, that
they might be discovered at a distance and worshipped. The missionaries
have had great trouble in demolishing their tombs and idols; but the
Indians, inland, still continue the custom of pasing tabi sa nano, or
asking permission of their dead ancestors, when they enter any wood,
mountain, or corn field, for hunting or sowing; and if they omit this
ceremony imagine their nonos will punish them with bad fortune.

