DRESSES.

The dresses of the young women of rank were pretty enough. A large blue
turband, woven with silver chains, which, meeting behind and crossing,
were fastened to the earrings in festoons, decorated their heads. In this
was placed a large plume of cock's feathers, bending forward over the
face. The jacket was blue, of a silky texture, their own work, and
bordered with small gold chain. The body-dress, likewise of their own
weaving, was of cotton mingled with silk, richly striped and mixed with
gold thread; but they wear it no lower than the knees. The youths of
fashion were in a kind of harlequin habit, the forepart of the trousers
white, the back-part blue; their jacket after the same fashion. They
delighted much in an instrument made from some part of the iju palm-tree,
which resembled and produced a sound like the jews-harp.

COOKERY.

Their domestic economy (I speak of the houses of the chiefs) seemed
better regulated than it generally is in these countries; they seemed
tolerably advanced in the art of cookery, and had much variety of food;
such as the flesh of deer, which they take in rattan snares, wild ducks,
abounding on the lake; green pigeons, quails innumerable; and a variety
of fish beside the summah already mentioned, and the ikan gadis, a
species of carp which attains to a greater size here than in the rivers.

ESCULENT VEGETABLES.

The potato, which was introduced there many years ago, is now a common
article of food, and cultivated with some attention. Their plantations
supply many esculent herbs, fruits, and roots; but the coconut, although
reared as a curiosity, is abortive in these inland regions, and its place
is supplied by the buah kras (Juglans camirium), of which they also make
their torches. Excellent tobacco is grown there, also cotton and indigo,
the small leafed kind. They get some silk from Palembang, and rear a
little themselves. The communication is more frequent with the north-west
shore than with the eastern, and of late, since the English have been
settled at Pulo Chinco, they prefer going there for opium to the more
tedious (though less distant) journey by which they formerly sought it at
Moco-moco.

