CHARACTER OF PEOPLE.

Although the chiefs received us with hospitality yet the mass of people
considered our intentions as hostile, and seemed jealous of our
intrusion. Of their women however they were not at all jealous, and the
familiarity of these was unrestrained. They entertained us with dances
after their fashion, and made some rude attempts at performing a sort of
pantomime. I may now close this detail with observing that the natives of
this mountainous region have stronger animal spirits than those of the
plains, and pass their lives with more variety than the torpid
inhabitants of the coast; that they breathe a spirit of independence, and
being frequently engaged in warfare, village against village, they would
be better prepared to resist any invasion of their liberties.

SUSPICIONS.

They took great offence at a large package carried by six men which
contained our necessaries, insisting that within it we had concealed a
priuk api, for so they call a mortar or howitzer, one of which had been
used with success against a village on the borders of their country
during the rebellion of the son of the sultan of Moco-moco; and even when
satisfied respecting this they manifested so much suspicion that we found
it necessary to be constantly on our guard, and were once nearly provoked
by their petulance and treachery to proceed to violence. When they found
our determination they seemed humble, but were not even then to be
trusted; and when we were on our return a friendly chief sent us
intelligence that an ambuscade had been laid for us in one of the narrow
passes of the mountains. We pursued our journey however without meeting
any obstruction.

...

On the subject of gold I have only to add to Mr. Campbell's information
that, in the enumeration by the natives of places where there are
gold-mines, Karinchi is always included.

EXPEDITION TO INTERIOR COUNTRY.

Opportunities of visiting the interior parts of the island have so seldom
occurred, or are likely to occur, that I do not hesitate to present to
the reader an abstract of the Journal kept by Lieutenant Hastings Dare
(now a captain on the Bengal establishment) whilst commanding an
expedition to the countries of Ipu, Serampei, and Sungei-tenang, which
border to the south-east on that of Korinchi above described; making at
the same time my acknowledgments to that gentleman for his obliging
communication of the original, and my apologies for the brevity to which
my subject renders it necessary to confine the narrative.

