ORIGIN OF DISTURBANCES.

Sultan Asing, brother to the present sultan of Moco-moco, in conjunction
with Pa Muncha and Sultan Sidi, two hill-chiefs his relations, residing
at Pakalang-jambu and Jambi, raised a small force with which, in the
latter part of the year 1804, they made a descent on Ipu, one of the
Company's districts, burnt several villages and carried off a number of
the inhabitants. The guard of native Malay troops not being sufficiently
strong to check these depredations, a party was ordered from Fort
Marlborough under the command of Lieutenant Hastings Dare, consisting of
eighty-three sepoy officers and men, with five lascars, twenty­two Bengal
convicts, and eighteen of the Bugis-guard; in the whole one hundred and
twenty-eight.

November 22 1804. Marched from Fort Marlborough, and December 3 arrived
at Ipu. The roads extremely bad from the torrents of rain that fell. 4th.
Mr. Hawthorne, the Resident, informed us that the enemy had fortified
themselves at a place called Tabe-si-kuddi, but, on hearing of the
approach of the detachment, had gone off to the hills in the
Sungei­tenang country and fortified themselves at Koto Tuggoh, a village
that had been a receptacle for all the vagabonds from the districts near
the coast. 13th. Having procured coolies and provisions, for which we
have been hitherto detained, quitted Ipu in an east-north-east direction,
and passed through several pepper and rice plantations. At dusun Baru one
of our people caught a fine large fish, called ikan gadis. 14th. Marched
in a south-east direction; crossed several rivulets, and reached again
the banks of Ipu river, which we crossed. It was about four feet deep and
very rapid. Passed the night at dusun Arah. The country rather hilly;
thermometer 88 degrees at noon. 15th. Reached dusun Tanjong, the last
place in the Ipu district where rice or any other provision is to be
found, and these were sent on from Talang Puttei, this place being
deserted by its inhabitants, several of whom the enemy had carried off
with them as slaves. The country very hilly, and roads, in consequence of
the heavy rains, bad and slippery. 16th. Marched in a north and east
direction.

