HOT SPRINGS.

After crossing the Ayer Ikan stream twice we arrived at some hot springs,
about three or four miles in the winding course we were obliged to take
from dusun Tanjong, situated in a low swampy spot, about sixty yards in
circumference. This is very hot in every part of it, excepting (which is
very extraordinary) one place on its eastern side, where, although a hot
spring is bubbling up within one yard of it, the water running from it is
as cold as common spring water. In consequence of the excessive heat of
the place and softness of the ground none of us could get close to the
springs; but upon putting the thermometer within three yards of them it
immediately rose to 120 degrees of Fahrenheit. We could not bear our
fingers any time in the water. It tasted copperish and bitter; there was
a strong sulphurous smell at the place, and a green sediment at the
bottom and sides of the spring, with a reddish or copper-coloured scum
floating on the surface. After again crossing the Ikan stream we arrived
at dusun Simpang. The enemy had been here, and had burned nearly half of
the village and carried off the inhabitants. The road from Tanjong to
Simpang was entirely through a succession of pepper-gardens and rice
plantations. We are now among the hills. Country in a higher state of
cultivation than near the coast, but nearly deserted, and must soon
become a waste. Could not get intelligence of the enemy. Built huts on
Ayer Ikan at Napah Kapah. 17th. Marched in a south direction and crossed
Ayer Tubbu, passing a number of durian trees on its bank. Again crossed
the stream several times. Arrived early at Tabe-si-kuddi, a small talang,
where the enemy had built three batteries or entrenchments and left
behind them a quantity of grain, but vegetating and unfit for use.
Previously to our reaching these entrenchments some of the detachment got
wounded in the feet with ranjaus, set very thickly in the ground in every
direction, and which obliged us to be very cautious in our steps until we
arrived at the banks of a small rivulet, called the Nibong, two or three
miles beyond them.

