RANJAUS.

Ranjaus are slips of bamboo sharpened at each end, the part that is stuck
in the ground being thicker than the opposite end, which decreases to a
fine thin point, and is hardened by dipping it in oil and applying it to
the smoke of a lamp near the flame. They are planted in the footpaths,
sometimes erect, sometimes sloping, in small holes, or in muddy and miry
places, and when trodden upon (for they are so well concealed as not to
be easily seen) they pierce through the foot and make a most disagreeable
wound, the bamboo leaving in it a rough hairy stuff it has on its
outside, which irritates, inflames, and prevents it from healing. The
whole of the road this day lay over a succession of steep hills, and in
the latter part covered with deep forests. The whole of the detachment
did not reach our huts on the bank of the Nibong stream till evening,
much time being consumed in bringing on the mortar and magazine. Picked
up pouches, musket stocks, etc., and saw new huts, near one of which was
a quantity of clotted blood and a fresh grave. 18th. Proceeded
east-north-east and passed several rivulets. Regained the banks of the
Ipu river, running north-east to south-west here tolerably broad and
shallow, being a succession of rapids over a rough stony bed. Encamped
both this night and the last where the enemy had built huts. 19th.
Marched in a north direction. More of the detachment wounded by ranjaus
planted in the pathways. Roads slippery and bad from rains, and the hills
so steep it is with difficulty we get the mortar and heavy baggage
forward. Killed a green snake with black spots along its back, about four
feet long, four to five inches in girt, and with a thick stumpy tail. The
natives say its bite is venomous. Our course today has been north along
the banks of the Ipu river; the noise of the rapids so great that when
near it we can with difficulty hear each other speak. 20th. Continued
along the river, crossing it several times. Came to a hot spring in the
water of which the thermometer rose to 100 degrees at a considerable
distance from its source. The road today tolerably level and good.

