LEECHES.

We were much plagued by a small kind of leech, which dropped on us from
the leaves of the trees, and got withinside our clothes. We were in
consequence on our halting every day obliged to strip and bathe ourselves
in order to detach them from our bodies, filled with the blood they had
sucked from us. They were not above an inch in length, and before they
fixed themselves as thin as a needle, so that they could penetrate our
dress in any part. We encamped this evening at the conflux of the Simpang
stream and Ipu river. Our huts were generally thatched with the puar or
wild cardamum leaf, which grows in great abundance on the banks of the
rivers in this part of the country. It bears a pleasant acid fruit,
growing much in the same way as the maize. In long journeys through the
woods, when other provisions fail, the natives live principally on this.
The leaf is something like that of the plantain, but not nearly so large.
21st. Arrived at a spot called Dingau-benar, from whence we were obliged
to return on account of the coolies not being able to descend a hill
which was at least a hundred and fifty yards high, and nearly
perpendicular. In effecting it we were obliged to cling to the trees and
roots, without which assistance it would have been impracticable. It was
nearly evening before one half of the detachment had reached the bottom,
and it rained so excessively hard that we were obliged to remain divided
for the night; the rear party on the top of the steep hill, and the
advanced on the brow of another hill. One of the guides and a Malay
coolie were drowned in attempting to find a ford across the Ipu river. I
was a long time before we could get any fire, everything being completely
soaked through, and the greater part of the poor fellows had not time to
build huts for themselves. Military disposition for guarding baggage,
preventing surprise, etc. 22nd. We had much difficulty in getting the
mortar and its bed down, being obliged to make use of long thick rattans
tied to them and successively to several trees. It was really admirable
to observe the patience of the sepoys and Bengal convicts on this
occasion. On mustering the coolies, found that nearly one half had run
during the night, which obliged us to fling away twenty bags of rice,
besides salt and other articles. Our course lay north, crossing the river
several times. My poor faithful dog Gruff was carried away by the
violence of the stream and lost. We were obliged to make bridges by
cutting down tall trees, laying them across the stream, and interlacing
them with rattans.

