The greater Ayer Dikit river, on the north side of which this place lies,
runs nearly from east to west. There are four or five bamboo huts at it,
for the temporary habitation of travellers passing and repassing this
way, being in the direction from the Serampei to the Sungei-tenang
country. These huts are covered with bamboos (in plenty here) split and
placed like pantiles transversely over each other, forming, when the
bamboos are well-grown, a capital and lasting roof (see above). 31st. A
Malay man and woman taken by our people report that the enemy thirteen
days ago had proceeded two days march beyond Koto Tuggoh. Received some
provisions from Ranna Alli. The enemy, we are informed, have dug holes
and put long stakes into them, set spring-spears, and planted the road
very thickly with ranjaus, and were collecting their force at Koto Tuggoh
(signifying the strong fortress) to receive us. 1805. January 1st and
2nd. Received some small supplies of provisions.

COME UP WITH THE ENEMY.

On the 3rd we were saluted by shouting and firing of the enemy from the
heights around us. Parties were immediately sent off in different
directions as the nature of the ground allowed.

ATTACK.

The advanced party had only time to fire two rounds when the enemy
retired to a strong position on the top of a steep hill where they had
thrown up a breastwork, which they disputed for a short time. On our
getting possession of it they divided into three parties and fled. We had
one sepoy killed and several of the detachment wounded by the ranjaus.
Many of the enemy were killed and wounded and the paths they had taken
covered with blood; but it is impossible to tell their numbers as they
always carry them off the moment they drop, considering it a disgrace to
leave them on the field of battle. If they get any of the bodies of their
enemies they immediately strike off the head and fix it on a long pole,
carrying it to their village as a trophy, and addressing to it every sort
of abusive language. Those taken alive in battle are made slaves. After
completely destroying everything in the battery we marched, and arrived
at the top of a very high hill, where we built our huts for the evening.
The road was thickly planted with ranjaus which, with the heavy rains,
impeded our progress and prevented us from reaching a place called
Danau-pau. Our course today has been north-east and easterly, the roads
shockingly bad, and we were obliged to leave behind several coolies and
two sepoys who were unable to accompany us. 4th. Obliged to fling away
the bullets of the cartridges, three-fourths of which were damaged, and
other articles. Most of the detachment sick with fluxes and fevers, or
wounded in the feet. Marched in an eastern direction. Reached a spot very
difficult to pass, being knee-deep in mud for a considerable way, with
ranjaus concealed in the mud, and spring-spears set in many places. We
were obliged to creep through a thicket of canes and bamboos. About noon
the advanced party arrived at a lake and discovered that the enemy were
on the opposite side of a small stream that ran from the lake, where they
had entrenched themselves behind four small batteries in a most
advantageous position, being on the top of a steep hill, of difficult
access, with the stream on one side, the lake on the other, and the other
parts surrounded by a swamp.

