ENTRENCHMENTS ATTACKED AND CARRIED.

We immediately commenced the attack, but were unable, from the number of
ranjaus in the only accessible part, to make a push on to the enemy.
However about one o'clock we effected our purpose, and completely got
possession of the entrenchments, which, had they been properly defended,
must have cost us more than the half of our detachment. We had four
sepoys severely wounded, and almost the whole of our feet dreadfully cut.
Numbers of the enemy were killed and wounded. They defended each of the
batteries with some obstinacy against our fire, but when once we came
near them they could not stand our arms, and ran in every direction. At
this place there are no houses nor inhabitants, but only temporary huts,
built by the Sungei-tenang people, who come here occasionally to fish.
The lake, which is named Danau-pau, has a most beautiful appearance,
being like a great amphitheatre, surrounded by high and steep mountains
covered with forests. It is about two miles in diameter. We occupied some
huts built by the enemy. The place is thickly surrounded with bamboos.

MOTIVES FOR RETURNING TO THE COAST.

In consequence of the number of our sick and wounded, the small strength
of coolies to carry their baggage, and the want of medicines and
ammunition, as well as of provisions, we thought it advisable to return
to Rantau Kramas; and to effect this we were obliged to fling away the
mortar-bed, shells, and a number of other things. We marched at noon, and
arrived in the evening at the top of the hill where we had before
encamped, and remained for the night. 6th. Reached Rantau Kramas. 7th.
Marching in torrents of rain. People exceedingly harassed, reduced, and
emaciated. Relieved by the arrival of Serampei people with some
provisions from Ranna Alli. 8th. After a most fatiguing march arrived at
that place half-dead with damps and cold. The bearers of the litters for
the sick were absolutely knocked up, and we were obliged to the sepoys
for getting on as we did. Our route was north-west with little variation.
9th. Remained at Ranna Alli. This serampei village consists of about
fifteen houses, and may contain a hundred and fifty or two hundred
inhabitants. It is thickly planted all round with a tall hedge of live
bamboos, on the outside of which ranjaus are planted to the distance of
thirty or forty feet. Withinside of the hedge there is a bamboo pagar or
paling. It is situated on a steep hill surrounded by others, which in
many places are cleared to their tops, where the inhabitants have their
ladangs or rice plantations. They appeared to be a quiet, inoffensive set
of people; their language different from the Malayan, which most of them
spoke, but very imperfectly and hardly to be understood by us. On our
approach the women and children ran to their ladangs, being, as their
husbands informed us, afraid of the sepoys.

