GOITRES.

Of the women whom we saw almost every one had the goitres or swellings
under the throat; and it seemed to be more prevalent with these than with
the men. One woman in particular had two protuberances dangling at her
neck as big as quart bottles.

There are three dupatis and four mantris to this village, to whom we made
presents, and afterwards to the wives and families of the inhabitants.
10th and 11th. Preparing for our march to Moco-moco, where we can recruit
our force, and procure supplies of stores and ammunition. 12th. Marched
in a north and north-west direction.

HANGING BRIDGE.

Passed over a bridge of curious construction across the Ayer Abu River.
It was formed of bamboos tied together with iju ropes and suspended to
the trees, whose branches stretched nearly over the stream.

The Serampei women are the worst-favoured creatures we ever saw, and
uncouth in their manners. Arrived at Tanjong Kasiri, another fortified
village, more populous than Ranna Alli. 13th. The sick and heavy baggage
were ordered to Tanjong Agung, another Serampei village.

HOT SPRINGS.

14th. Arrived at Ayer Grau or Abu, a small river, within a yard or two of
which we saw columns of smoke issuing from the earth, where there were
hot springs of water bubbling up in a number of places. The stream was
quite warm for several yards, and the ground and stones were so hot that
there was no standing on them for any length of time. The large pieces of
quartz, pumice, and other stones apparently burnt, induce us to suppose
there must have formerly been a volcano at this spot, which is a deep
vale, surrounded by high hills. Arrived much fatigued at Tanjong Agung,
where the head dupati received us in his best style.

COCONUTS.

He seemed to know more of European customs and manners than those whom we
have hitherto met with, and here, for the first time since quitting the
Ipu district, we got coconuts, which he presented to us.

CASSIA.

We saw numbers of cassia-trees in our march today. The bark, which the
natives brought us in quantities, is sweet, but thick and coarse, and
much inferior to cinnamon. This is the last and best fortified village in
the Serampei country, bordering on the forests between that and
Anak-Sungei.

