DESCRIPTION OF MOCO-MOCO.

Fort Ann lies on the southern and the settlement on the northern side of
the Si Luggan River, which name belongs properly to the place also, and
that of Moco-moco to a small village higher up. The bazaar consists of
about one hundred houses, all full of children. At the northern end is
the sultan's, which has nothing particular to distinguish it, but only
its being larger than other Malay houses. Great quantities of fish are
procured at this place, and sold cheap. The trade is principally with the
hill-people, in salt, piece-goods, iron, steel, and opium; for which the
returns are provisions, timber, and a little gold-dust. Formerly there
was a trade carried on with the Padang and other ate angin people, but it
is now dropped. The soil is sandy, low, and flat.

EXPEDITION RESUMED.

It being still necessary to make an example of the Sungei-tenang people
for assisting the three hostile chiefs in their depredations, in order
thereby to deter others from doing the same in future, and the men being
now recovered from their fatigue and furnished with the requisite
supplies, the detachment began to march on the 9th of February for Ayer
Dikit. It now consists of Lieutenant Dare, Mr. Alexander, surgeon,
seventy sepoys, including officers, twenty-seven lascars and Bengal
convicts, and eleven of the bugis-guard. Left the old mortar and took
with us one of smaller calibre.

ACCOUNT OF SERAMPEI COUNTRY AND PEOPLE.

From the 10th to the 22nd occupied in our march to the Serampei village
of Ranna Alli. The people of this country acknowledge themselves the
subjects of the sultan of Jambi, who sometimes but rarely exacts a
tribute from them of a buffalo, a tail of gold, and a hundred bamboos of
rice from each village. They are accustomed to carry burdens of from
sixty to ninety pounds weight on journeys that take them twenty or thirty
days; and it astonishes a lowlander to see with what ease they walk over
these hills, generally going a shuffling or ambling pace. Their loads are
placed in a long triangular basket, supported by a fillet across the
forehead, resting upon the back and back part of the head, the broadest
end of the triangle being uppermost, considerably above the head, and the
small end coming down as low as the loins. The Serampei country,
comprehending fifteen fortified and independent dusuns, beside talangs or
small open villages, is bounded on the north and north-west by Korinchi,
on the east, south-east, and south by Pakalang-jambu and Sungei-tenang,
and on the west and south-west by the greater Ayer Dikit River and chain
of high mountains bordering on the Sungei-ipu country. 23rd. Reached
Rantau Kramas. Took possession of the batteries, which the enemy had
considerably improved in our absence, collecting large quantities of
stones; but they were not manned, probably from not expecting our return
so soon. 24th. Arrived at those of Danau-pau, which had also been
strengthened. The roads being dry and weather fine we are enabled to make
tolerably long marches. Our advanced party nearly caught one of the enemy
planting ranjaus, and in retreating he wounded himself with them. 25th.
Passed many small rivulets discharging themselves into the lake at this
place.

