COME UP WITH THE ENEMY.

26th. The officer commanding the advanced party sent word that the enemy
were at a short distance ahead; that they had felled a number of trees to
obstruct the road, and had thrown an entrenchment across it, extending
from one swamp and precipice to another, where they waited to receive us.
When the whole of the detachment had come up we marched on to the attack,
scrambled over the trees, and with great difficulty got the mortar over.

FIRST ATTACK FAILS.

The first onset was not attended with success, and our men were dropping
fast, not being able to advance on account of the ranjaus, which almost
pinned their feet to the ground. Seeing that the entrenchments were not
to be carried in front, a subedar with thirty sepoys and the bugis-guard
were ordered to endeavour to pass the swamp on the right, find out a
pathway, and attack the enemy on the flank and rear, while the remainder
should, on a preconcerted signal, make an attack on the front at the same
time. To prevent the enemy from discovering our intentions the drums were
kept beating, and a few random shots fired. Upon the signal being given a
general attack commenced, and our success was complete.

ENTRENCHMENTS CARRIED.

The enemy, of whom there were, as we reckon, three or four hundred within
the entrenchments, were soon put to the rout, and, after losing great
numbers, among whom was the head dupati, a principal instigator of the
disturbances, fled in all directions. We lost two sepoys killed and seven
wounded, beside several much hurt by the ranjaus. The mortar played
during the time, but is not supposed to have done much execution on
account of the surrounding trees.

THEIR CONSTRUCTION.

The entrenchments were constructed of large trees laid horizontally
between stakes driven into the ground, about seven feet high, with
loopholes for firing. Being laid about six feet thick, a cannonball could
not have penetrated. They extended eighty or ninety yards. The headman's
quarters were a large tree hollowed at the root.

