As soon as litters could be made for the wounded, and the killed were
buried, we continued our march in an eastern direction, and in about an
hour arrived at another battery, which however was not defended. In front
of this the enemy had tied a number of long sharp stakes to a stone,
which was suspended to the bough of a tree, and by swinging it their plan
was to wound us.

ARRIVE AT A STREAM RUNNING INTO THE JAMBI RIVER.

Crossed the Tambesi rivulet, flowing from south to north, and one of the
contributary streams to the Jambi River, which discharges itself into the
sea on the eastern side of the Island. Built our huts near a field of
maize and padi.

KOTO TUGGOH.

27th. Marched to Koto Tuggoh, from whence the inhabitants fled on our
throwing one shell and firing a few muskets, and we took possession of
the place. It is situated on a high hill, nearly perpendicular on three
sides, the easiest entrance being on the west, but it is there defended
by a ditch seven fathoms deep and five wide. The place contains the
ballei and about twenty houses, built in general of plank very neatly put
together, and carved; and some of them were also roofed with planks or
shingles about two feet long and one broad. The others with the leaves of
the puar or cardamum, which are again very thinly covered with iju. This
is said to last long, but harbours vermin, as we experienced. When we
entered the village we met with only one person, who was deformed, dumb,
and had more the appearance of a monkey than a human creature.

DESTROYED. ENTER KOTO BHARU.

March 1st. After completely destroying Koto Tuggoh we marched in a north
and afterwards an east direction, and arrived at Koto Bharu. The head
dupati requesting a parley, it was granted, and, on our promising not to
injure his village, he allowed us to take possession of it. We found in
the place a number of Batang Asei and other people, armed with muskets,
blunderbusses, and spears. At our desire, he sent off people to the other
Sungei-tenang villages to summon their chiefs to meet us if they chose to
show themselves friends, or otherwise we should proceed against them as
we had done against Koto Tuggoh.

