(*Footnote. The account given by Juan de Barros of the abandonment of the
Malayan city of Singapura and foundation of Malacca differs materially
from the above; and although the authority of a writer, who collected his
materials in Lisbon, cannot be put in competition with that of Valentyn,
who passed a long and laborious life amongst the people, and quotes the
native historians, I shall give an abstract of his relation, from the
sixth book of the second Decade. "At the period when Cingapura flourished
its king was named Sangesinga; and in the neighbouring island of Java
reigned Pararisa, upon whose death the latter country became subject to
the tyranny of his brother, who put one of his nephews to death, and
forced many of the nobles, who took part against him, to seek refuge
abroad. Among these was one named Paramisora, whom Sangesinga received
with hospitality that was badly requited, for the stranger soon found
means to put him to death, and, by the assistance of the Javans who
accompanied him in his flight, to take possession of the city. The king
of Siam, whose son-in-law and vassal the deceased was, assembled a large
force by sea and land, and compelled the usurper to evacuate Cingapura
with two thousand followers, a part of whom were Cellates (orang sellat
men of the Straits) accustomed to live by fishing and piracy, who had
assisted him in seizing and keeping the throne during five years. They
disembarked at a place called Muar, a hundred and fifty leagues from
thence, where Paramisora and his own people fortified themselves. The
Cellates, whom he did not choose to trust, proceeded five leagues
farther, and occupied a bank of the river where the fortress of Malacca
now stands. Here they united with the half-savage natives, who like
themselves spoke the Malayan language, and, the spot they had chosen
becoming too confined for their increasing numbers, they moved a league
higher up, to one more convenient, and were at length joined by their
former chief and his companions. During the government of his son, named
Xaquen Darxa (a strange Portuguese corruption of Iskander or Sekander
Shah) they again descended the river, in order to enjoy the advantages of
a sea-port, and built a town, which, from the fortunes of his father, was
named Malacca, signifying an exile." Every person conversant with the
language must know that the word does not bear that nor any similar
meaning, and an error so palpable throws discredit on the whole
narrative.)

