Having proposed some queries upon this subject to the late Mr. Francis
Light, who first settled the island of Pinang or Prince of Wales island,
in the Straits of Malacca, granted to him by the king of Kedah as the
marriage portion of his daughter, he furnished me in answer with the
following notices. "The origin of the Malays, like that of other people,
is involved in fable; every raja is descended from some demigod, and the
people sprung from the ocean. According to their traditions however their
first city of Singapura, near the present Johor, was peopled from
Palembang, from whence they proceeded to settle at Malacca (naming their
city from the fruit so called), and spread along the coast. The peninsula
is at present inhabited by distinct races of people. The Siamese possess
the northern part to latitude 7 degrees, extending from the east to the
west side. The Malays possess the whole of the sea-coast on both sides,
from that latitude to Point Romania; being mixed in some places with the
Bugis from Celebes, who have still a small settlement at Salmigor. The
inland parts to the northward are inhabited by the Patani people, who
appear to be a mixture of Siamese and Malays, and occupy independent
dusuns or villages. Among the forests and in the mountains are a race of
Caffres, in every respect resembling those of Africa excepting in
stature, which does not exceed four feet eight inches. The Menangkabau
people of the peninsula are so named from an inland country in Pulo
Percha (Sumatra). A distinction is made between them and the Malays of
Johor, but none is perceptible."

To these authorities I shall add that of Mr. Thomas Raffles, at this time
Secretary to the government of Pulo Pinang, a gentleman whose
intelligence and zeal in the pursuit of knowledge give the strongest hope
of his becoming an ornament to oriental literature. To his correspondence
I am indebted for much useful information in the line of my researches,
and the following passages corroborate the opinions I had formed. "With
respect to the Menangkabaus, after a good deal of inquiry, I have not yet
been able decidedly to ascertain the relation between those of that name
in the peninsula and the Menangkabaus of Pulo Percha. The Malays affirm
without hesitation that they all came originally from the latter island."
In a recent communication he adds, "I am more confident than ever that
the Menangkabaus of the peninsula derive their origin from the country of
that name in Sumatra. Inland of Malacca about sixty miles is situated the
Malay kingdom of Rumbo, whose sultan and all the principal officers of
state hold their authority immediately from Menangkabau, and have written
commissions for their respective offices. This shows the extent of that
ancient power even now, reduced as it must be, in common with that of the
Malay people in general. I had many opportunities of communicating with
the natives of Rumbo, and they have clearly a peculiar dialect,
resembling exactly what you mention of substituting the final o for a, as
in the word ambo for amba. In fact, the dialect is called by the Malacca
people the language of Menangkabau."

