(*Footnote. The following instances occur of mention made by writers at
different periods of the kingdom of Menangkabau. ODOARDUS BARBOSA, 1519.
"Sumatra, a most large and beautiful island; Pedir, the principal city on
the northern side, where are also Pacem and Achem. Campar is opposite to
Malacca. Monancabo, to the southward, is the principal source of gold, as
well from mines as collected in the banks of the rivers." DE BARROS,
1553. "Malacca had the epithet of aurea given to it on account of the
abundance of gold brought from Monancabo and Barros, countries in the
island of Camatra, where it is procured." DIOGO de COUTO, 1600. "He gives
an account of a Portuguese ship wrecked on the coast of Sumatra, near to
the country of Manancabo, in 1560. Six hundred persons got on shore,
among whom were some women, one of them, Dona Francisca Sardinha, was of
such remarkable beauty that the people of the country resolved to carry
her off for their king; and they effected it, after a struggle in which
sixty of the Europeans lost their lives. At this period there was a great
intercourse between Manancabo and Malacca, many vessels going yearly with
gold to purchase cotton goods and other merchandise. In ancient times the
country was so rich in this metal that several hundredweight (seis, sete,
e mais candiz, de que trez fazem hum moyo) were exported in one season.
Volume 3 page 178. LINSCHOTEN, 1601. "At Menancabo excellent poniards
made, called creeses; best weapons of all the orient. Islands along the
coast of Sumatra, called islands of Menancabo." ARGENSOLA, 1609. "A
vessel loaded with creeses manufactured at Menancabo and a great quantity
of artillery; a species of warlike machine known and fabricated in
Sumatra many years before they were introduced by Europeans." LANCASTER,
1602. "Menangcabo lies eight or ten leagues inland of Priaman." BEST,
1613. " A man arrived from Menangcaboo at Ticoo, and brought news from
Jambee." BEAULIEU, 1622. "Du cote du ponant apres Padang suit le royaume
de Manimcabo; puis celuy d'Andripoura-Il y a (a Jambi) grand trafic d'or,
qu'ils ont avec ceux de Manimcabo." Vies des Gouverneurs Gen. Hollandois,
1763. Il est bon de remarquer ici que presque toute la cote occidentale
avoit ete reduite par la flotte du Sieur Pierre de Bitter en 1664.
L'annee suivante, les habitans de Pauw massacrerent le Commissaire Gruis,
etc.; mais apres avoir venge ce meurtre, et dissipe les revoltes en 1666,
les Hollandois etoient restes les maitres de toute cette etendue de cotes
entre Sillebar et Baros, ou ils etablirent divers comptoirs, dont celui
de Padang est le principal depuis 1667. Le commandant, qui y reside, est
en meme temps Stadhouder (Lieutenant) de l'Empereur de Maningcabo, a qui
la Compagnie a cede, sous diverses restrictions & limitations, la
souverainete sur tous les peuples qui babitent le long du rivage" etc.)

