DIVISION OF THE GOVERNMENT.

In consequence of disturbances that ensued upon the death of a sultan
Alif in the year 1680, without direct heirs, the government became
divided amongst three chiefs, presumed to have been of the royal family
and at the same time great officers of state, who resided at places named
Suruwasa, Pagar-ruyong, and Sungei-trap; and in that state it continues
to the present time. Upon the capture of Padang by the English in 1781
deputations arrived from two of these chiefs with congratulations upon
the success of our arms; which will be repeated with equal sincerity to
those who may chance to succeed us. The influence of the Dutch (and it
would have been the same with any other European power) has certainly
contributed to undermine the political consequence of Menangkabau by
giving countenance and support to its disobedient vassals, who in their
turn have often experienced the dangerous effects of receiving favours
from too powerful an ally. Pasaman, a populous country, and rich in gold,
cassia, and camphor, one of its nearest provinces, and governed by a
panglima from thence, now disclaims all manner of dependence. Its
sovereignty is divided between the two rajas of Sabluan and Kanali, who,
in imitation of their former masters, boast an origin of high antiquity.
One of them preserves as his sacred relic the bark of a tree in which his
ancestor was nursed in the woods before the Pasaman people had reached
their present polished state. The other, to be on a level with him,
possesses the beard of a reverend predecessor (perhaps an anchorite),
which was so bushy that a large bird had built its nest in it. Raja
Kanali supported a long war with the Hollanders, attended with many
reverses of fortune.

Whether the three sultans maintain a struggle of hostile rivalship, or
act with an appearance of concert, as holding the nominal sovereignty
under a species of joint-regency, I am not informed, but each of them in
the preamble of his letters assumes all the royal titles, without any
allusion to competitors; and although their power and resources are not
much beyond those of a common raja they do not fail to assert all the
ancient rights and prerogatives of the empire, which are not disputed so
long as they are not attempted to be carried into force. Pompous
dictatorial edicts are issued and received by the neighbouring states
(including the European chiefs of Padang), with demonstration of profound
respect, but no farther obeyed than may happen to consist with the
political interests of the parties to whom they are addressed. Their
authority in short resembles not a little that of the sovereign pontiffs
of Rome during the latter centuries, founded as it is in the superstition
of remote ages; holding terrors over the weak, and contemned by the
stronger powers. The district of Suruwasa, containing the site of the old
capital, or Menangkabau proper, seems to have been considered by the
Dutch as entitled to a degree of pre-eminence; but I have not been able
to discover any marks of superiority or inferiority amongst them. In
distant parts the schism is either unknown, or the three who exercise the
royal functions are regarded as co-existing members of the same family,
and their government, in the abstract, however insignificant in itself,
is there an object of veneration. Indeed to such an unaccountable excess
is this carried that every relative of the sacred family, and many who
have no pretensions to it assume that character, are treated wherever
they appear, not only with the most profound respect by the chiefs who go
out to meet them, fire salutes on their entering the dusuns, and allow
them to level contributions for their maintenance; but by the country
people with such a degree of superstitious awe that they submit to be
insulted, plundered, and even wounded by them, without making resistance,
which they would esteem a dangerous profanation. Their appropriate title
(not uncommon in other Malayan countries) is Iang de per-tuan, literally
signifying he who ruleth.

