Three circular Seals with inscriptions in Arabic characters.

(Eldest brother) Sultan of Rum. Key Dummul Alum. Maharaja Alif.

(Second brother) Sultan of China. Nour Alum. Maharaja Dempang or Dipang.

(Youngest brother) Sultan of Menangkabau. Aour Alum. Maharaja Dirja or
Durja.

TRANSLATION OF A WARRANT.

The sultan of Menangkabau, whose residence is at Pagar-ruyong, who is
king of kings; a descendant of raja Iskander zu'lkarnaini; possessed of
the crown brought from heaven by the prophet Adam; of a third part of the
wood kamat, one extremity of which is in the kingdom of Rum and another
in that of China; of the lance named lambing lambura ornamented with the
beard of janggi; of the palace in the city of Rum, whose entertainments
and diversions are exhibited in the month of zul'hijah, and where all
alims, fakiahs, and mulanakaris praise and supplicate Allah; possessor of
the gold-mine named kudarat-kudarati, which yields pure gold of twelve
carats, and of the gold named jati-jati which snaps the dalik wood; of
the sword named churak-simandang-giri, which received one hundred and
ninety gaps in conflict with the fiend Si Kati­muno, whom it slew; of the
kris formed of the soul of steel, which expresses an unwillingness at
being sheathed and shows itself pleased when drawn; of a date coeval with
the creation; master of fresh water in the ocean, to the extent of a
day's sailing; of a lance formed of a twig of iju ; the sultan who
receives his taxes in gold by the lessong measure; whose betel-stand is
of gold set with diamonds; who is possessor of the web named sangsista
kala, which weaves itself and adds one thread yearly, adorned with
pearls, and when that web shall be completed the world will be no more;
of horses of the race of sorimborani, superior to all others; of the
mountain Si guntang-guntang, which divides Palembang and Jambi, and of
the burning mountain; of the elephant named Hasti
Dewah; who is vicegerent of heaven; sultan of the golden river; lord of
the air and clouds; master of a ballei whose pillars are of the shrub
jalatang; of gandarangs (drums) made of the hollow stems of the
diminutive plants pulut and silosuri; of the anchor named paduka jati
employed to recover the crown which fell into the deep sea of Kulzum; of
the gong that resounds to the skies; of the buffalo named Si Binuwang
Sati, whose horns are ten feet asunder; of the unconquered cock,
Sen­gunani; of the coconut-tree which, from its amazing height and being
infested with serpents and other noxious reptiles, it is impossible to
climb; of the blue champaka flower, not to be found in any other country
than his (being yellow elsewhere); of the flowering shrub named
Sri­menjeri, of ambrosial scent; of the mountain on which the celestial
spirits dwell; who when he goes to rest wakes not until the gandarang
nobat sounds; He the sultan Sri Maharaja Durja furthermore declares,
etc.*

