"After this salutation, and the information I have given of my greatness
and power, which I attribute to the good and holy prophet Mahomet, I am
to acquaint you with the commands of the sultan whose presence bringeth
death to all who attempt to approach him without permission; and also
those of the sultan of Indrapura who has four breasts. This friendly
sheet of paper is brought from the two sultans above named, by their bird
anggas, unto their son, sultan Gandam Shah, to acquaint him with their
intention under this great seal, which is that they order their son
sultan Gandam Shah to oblige the English Company to settle in the
district called Biangnur, at a place called the field of sheep, that they
may not have occasion to be ashamed at their frequent refusal of our
goodness in permitting them to trade with us and with our subjects; and
that in case he cannot succeed in this affair we hereby advise him that
the ties of friendship subsisting between us and our son is broken; and
we direct that he send us an answer immediately, that we may know the
result--for all this island is our own." It is difficult to determine
whether the preamble, or the purport of the letter be the more
extraordinary.)

Probably no records upon earth can furnish an example of more
unintelligible jargon; yet these attributes are believed to be
indisputably true by the Malays and others residing at a distance from
his immediate dominions, who possess a greater degree of faith than wit;
and with this addition, that he dwells in a palace without covering, free
from inconvenience. It is at the same time but justice to these people to
observe that, in the ordinary concerns of life, their writings are as
sober, consistent, and rational as those of their neighbours.

REMARKS ON WARRANT.

The seals prefixed to the warrant are, beside his own and that of the
emperor of China, whose consequence is well known to the inhabitants of
the eastern islands, that of the sultan of Rum, by which is understood in
modern times, Constantinople, the seat of the emperor of the Turks, who
is looked up to by Mahometans, since the ruin of the khalifat, as the
head of their religion; but I have reason to think that the appellation
of Rumi was at an earlier period given by oriental writers to the
subjects of the great Turkoman empire of the Seljuks, whose capital was
Iconium or Kuniyah in Asia minor, of which the Ottoman was a branch. This
personage he honours with the title of his eldest brother, the descendant
of Iskander the two-horned, by which epithet the Macedonian hero is
always distinguished in eastern story, in consequence, as may be
presumed, of the horned figure on his coins,* which must long have
circulated in Persia and Arabia. Upon the obscure history of these
supposed brothers some light is thrown by the following legend
communicated to me as the belief of the people of Johor. "It is related
that Iskander dived into the sea, and there married a daughter of the
king of the ocean, by whom he had three sons, who, when they arrived at
manhood, were sent by their mother to the residence of their father. He
gave them a makuta or crown, and ordered them to find kingdoms where they
should establish themselves. Arriving in the straits of Singapura they
determined to try whose head the crown fitted. The eldest trying first
could not lift it to his head. The second the same. The third had nearly
effected it when it fell from his hand into the sea. After this the
eldest turned to the west and became king of Rome, the second to the east
and became king of China. The third remained at Johor. At this time Pulo
Percha (Sumatra) had not risen from the waters. When it began to appear,
this king of Johor, being on a fishing party, and observing it oppressed
by a huge snake named Si Kati-muno, attacked the monster with his sword
called Simandang-giri, and killed it, but not till the sword had received
one hundred and ninety notches in the encounter. The island being thus
allowed to rise, he went and settled by the burning mountain, and his
descendants became kings of Menangkabau." This has much the air of a tale
invented by the people of the peninsula to exalt the idea of their own
antiquity at the expense of their Sumatran neighbours. The blue
champaka-flower of which the sultan boasts possession I conceive to be an
imaginary and not an existent plant. The late respected Sir W. Jones, in
his Botanical Observations printed in the Asiatic Researches Volume 4
suspects that by it must be meant the Kaempferia bhuchampac, a plant
entirely different from the michelia; but as this supposition is built on
a mere resemblance of sounds it is necessary to state that the Malayan
term is champaka biru, and that nothing can be inferred from the
accidental coincidence of the Sanskrit word bhu, signifying ground, with
the English term for the blue colour.

