SIDE-ARMS.

The tombak, lambing, and kujur or kunjur are names for weapons of the
lance or spear kind; the pedang, rudus, pamandap, and kalewang are of the
sword kind, and slung at the side, the siwar is a small instrument of the
nature of a stiletto, chiefly used for assassination; and the kris is a
species of dagger of a particular construction, very generally worn,
being stuck in front through the folds of a belt that goes several times
round the body.


(PLATE 17. SUMATRAN WEAPONS.
A. A Malay Gadoobang.
B. A Batta Weapon.
C. A Malay Creese.
One-third of the size of the Originals.
W. Williams del. and sculpt.
Published by W. Marsden, 1810.)


(PLATE 17a. SUMATRAN WEAPONS.
D. A Malay Creese.
E. An Achenese Creese.
F. A Malay Sewar.
One-third of the size of the Originals.
W. Williams del. and sculpt.)


KRIS-BLADE.

The blade is about fourteen inches in length, not straight nor uniformly
curved, but waving in and out, as we see depicted the flaming swords that
guarded the gates of paradise; which probably may render a wound given
with it the more fatal. It is not smooth or polished like those of our
weapons, but by a peculiar process made to resemble a composition, in
which veins of a different metal are apparent. This damasking (as I was
informed by the late Mr. Boulton) is produced by beating together steel
and iron wire whilst in a state of half fusion, and eating them with
acids, by which the softest part is the most corroded; the edges being of
pure steel. Their temper is uncommonly hard. The head or haft is either
of ivory, the tooth of the duyong (sea-cow), that of the hippopotamus,
the snout of the ikan layer (voilier), of black coral, or of fine-grained
wood. This is ornamented with gold or a mixture of that and copper, which
they call swasa, highly polished and carved into curious figures, some of
which have the beak of a bird with the arms of a human creature, and bear
a resemblance to the Egyptian Isis. The sheath also is formed of some
beautiful species of wood, hollowed out, with a neat lacing of split
rattan, stained red round the lower parts; or sometimes it is plated with
gold. The value of a kris is supposed to be enhanced in proportion to the
number of persons it has slain. One that has been the instrument of much
bloodshed is regarded with a degree of veneration as something sacred.
The horror or enthusiasm inspired by the contemplation of such actions is
transferred to the weapon, which accordingly acquires sanctity from the
principle that leads ignorant men to reverence whatever possesses the
power of effecting mischief. Other circumstances also contribute to give
them celebrity, and they are distinguished by pompous names. Some have a
cushion by their bedside on which is placed their favourite weapon. I
have a manuscript treatise on krises, accompanied with drawings,
describing their imaginary properties and value, estimated at the price
of one or more slaves. The abominable custom of poisoning them, though
much talked of, is rarely practised I believe in modern times. They are
frequently seen rubbing the blades with lime-juice, which has been
considered as a precaution against danger of this kind, but it is rather
for the purpose of removing common stains or of improving the damasked
appearance.

