MODES OF WARFARE.

Although much parade attends their preparations for war and their
marches, displaying colours of scarlet cloth, and beating drums, gongs,
and chennangs, yet their operations are carried on rather in the way of
ambuscade and surprise of straggling parties than open combat, firing
irregularly from behind entrenchments, which the enemy takes care not to
approach too near.

HORSES.

They are said to go frequently to war on horseback, but I shall not
venture to give their force the name of cavalry. The chiefs may probably
avail themselves of the service of this useful animal from motives of
personal indulgence or state, but on account of the ranjaus or
sharp-pointed stakes so commonly planted in the passes (see the preceding
journal of Lieutenant Dare's march, where they are particularly
described), it is scarcely possible that horse could be employed as an
effective part of an army. It is also to be observed that neither the
natives nor even Europeans ever shoe them, the nature of the roads in
general not rendering it necessary. The breed of them is small but well
made, hardy, and vigorous. The soldiers serve without pay, but the
plunder they obtain is thrown into a common stock, and divided amongst
them. Whatever might formerly have been the degree of their prowess they
are not now much celebrated for it; yet the Dutch at Padang have often
found them troublesome enemies from their numbers, and been obliged to
secure themselves within their walls. Between the Menangkabau people,
those of Rau or Aru, and the Achinese, settled at Natal, wars used to be
incessant until they were checked by the influence of our authority at
that place. The factory itself was raised upon one of the breast-works
thrown up by them for defence, of which several are to be met with in
walking a few miles into the country, and some of them very substantial.
Their campaigns in this petty warfare were carried on very deliberately.
They made a regular practice of commencing a truce at sunset, when they
remained in mutual security, and sometimes agreed that hostilities should
take place only between certain hours of the day. The English resident,
Mr. Carter, was frequently chosen their umpire, and upon these occasions
used to fix in the ground his golden-headed cane, on the spot where the
deputies should meet and concert terms of accommodation; until at length
the parties, grown weary of their fruitless contests, resolved to place
themselves respectively under the dependence and protection of the
company. The fortified villages, in some parts of the country named
dusun, and in others kampong, are here, as on the continent of India,
denominated kota or forts, and the districts are distinguished from each
other by the number of confederated villages they contain.

