GOVERNMENT BY FOUR DATUS.

The smaller Malayan establishments are governed by their datus or heads
of tribes, of whom there are generally four; as at Bencoolen (properly
Bengkaulu) near to which the English settlement of Fort Marlborough is
situated, and where Fort York formerly stood. These are under the
protection or dominion of two native chiefs or princes, the pangerans of
Sungei-lamo and Sungei-etam, the origin of whose authority has been
already explained. Each of these has possessions on different parts of
the river, the principal sway being in the hands of him of the two who
has most personal ability. They are constant rivals, though living upon
familiar terms, and are only restrained from open war by the authority of
the English. Limun likewise, and the neighbouring places of Batang-asei
and Pakalang-jambu, near the sources of Jambi River, where gold is
collected and carried chiefly to Bencoolen and the settlement of Laye,
where I had opportunities of seeing the traders, are each governed by
four datus, who, though not immediately nominated by the sultan, are
confirmed by, and pay tribute to, him. The first of these, whose
situation is most southerly, receive also an investiture (baju, garment,
and destar, turband) from the sultan of Palembang, being a politic
measure adopted by these merchants for the convenience attending it in
their occasional trading concerns with that place.

HOT SPRINGS.

At Priangan, near Gunong-berapi, are several hot mineral springs, called
in the Malayan map already mentioned, panchuran tujuh or the seven
conduits, where the natives from time immemorial have been in the
practice of bathing; some being appropriated to the men, and others to
the women; with two of cold water, styled the king's. It will be
recollected that in ancient times this place was the seat of government.

ANCIENT SCULPTURE.

Near to these springs is a large stone or rock of very hard substance,
one part of which is smoothed to a perpendicular face of about ten or
twelve feet long and four high, on which are engraved characters supposed
to be European, the space being entirely filled with them and certain
chaps or marks at the corners. The natives presume them to be Dutch, but
say that the latter do not resemble the present mark of the Company.
There is some appearance of the date 1100. The informant (named Raja
Intan), who had repeatedly seen and examined it, added that M. Palm,
governor of Padang, once sent Malays with paper and paint to endeavour to
take off the inscription, but they did not succeed; and the Dutch, whose
arms never penetrated to that part of the country, are ignorant of its
meaning. It is noticed in the Malayan map. Should it prove to be a Hindu
monument it will be thought curious.

