WAR WITH THE DUTCH.

This was the occasion of a destructive war, in the event of which the
raja and his mantris were obliged to fly, and the country was nearly
depopulated. In 1705 he was reinstated, and reigned till about 1732.

DECLINE OF THE KINGDOM.

But the kingdom never recovered the shock it had received, and dwindled
into obscurity. Its river, which descends from the mountains of Korinchi,
is considered as one of the largest in the southern part of the west
coast, and is capable of admitting sloops. The country formerly produced
a large quantity of pepper, and some gold was brought down from the
interior, which now finds another channel. An English factory was
established there about the year 1684, but never became of any
importance.

KINGDOM OF ANAK-SUNGEI.

From the ruins of Indrapura has sprung the kingdom of Anak-sungei,
extending along the sea-coast from Manjuta River to that of Urei. Its
chief bears the title of sultan, and his capital, if such places deserve
the appellation, is Moco-moco. A description of it will be found above.
Although the government is Malayan, and the ministers of the sultan are
termed mantri (a title borrowed from the Hindus) the greatest part of the
country dependent on it is inhabited by the original dusun people, and
accordingly their proper chiefs are styled proattin, who are obliged to
attend their prince at stated periods, and to carry to him their
contribution or tax. His power over them however is very limited.

The first monarch of this new kingdom was named sultan Gulemat, who in
1695 established himself at Manjuta, by the assistance of the English, in
consequence of a revolution at Indrapura, by which the prince who had
afforded them protection on their first settling was driven out through
the intrigues, as they are termed, of the Dutch. It was a struggle, in
short, between the rival Companies, whose assistance was courted by the
different factions as it happened to suit their purpose, or who, becoming
strong enough to consider themselves as principals, made the native
chiefs the tools of their commercial ambition. In the year 1717 Gulemat
was removed from the throne by an assembly of the chiefs styling
themselves the mantris of Lima-kota and proattins of Anak-sungei, who set
up a person named Raja Kechil-besar in his room, appointing at the same
time, as his minister and successor, Raja Gandam Shah, by whom, upon his
accession in 1728, the seat of government was removed from Manjuta to
Moco-moco. He was father of sultan Pasisir Barat shah mualim shah, still
reigning in the year 1780, but harassed by the frequent rebellions of his
eldest son. The space of time occupied by the reigns of these two
sovereigns is extraordinary when we consider that the former must have
been at man's estate when he became minister or assessor in 1717. Nor is
it less remarkable that the son of the deposed sultan Gulemat, called
sultan Ala ed-din, was also living, at Tappanuli, about the year 1780,
being then supposed ninety years of age. He was confined as a state
prisoner at Madras during the government of Mr. Morse, and is mentioned
by Captain Forrest (Voyage to the Mergui Archipelago, page 57) as uncle
to the king of Achin, who reigned in 1784. The first English settlement
at Moco-moco was formed in 1717.

