RAKAN.

The river Rakan, to the northward of Siak, by much the largest in the
island, if it should not rather be considered as an inlet of the sea,
takes its rise in the Rau country, and is navigable for sloops to a great
distance from the sea; but vessels are deterred from entering it by the
rapidity of the current, or more probably the reflux of the tide, and
that peculiar swell known in the Ganges and elsewhere by the appellation
of the bore.

KAMPAR.

That of Kampar, to the southward, is said by the natives to labour under
the same inconvenience, and Mr. Lynch was informed that the tides there
rise from eighteen to twenty-four feet. If these circumstances render the
navigation dangerous it appears difficult to account for its having been
a place of considerable note at the period of the Portuguese conquest of
Malacca, and repeatedly the scene of naval actions with the fleets of
Achin, whilst Siak, which possesses many natural advantages, is rarely
mentioned. In modern times it has been scarcely at all known to
Europeans, and even its situation is doubtful.

INDRAGIRI.

The river of Indragiri is said by the natives to have its source in a
lake of the Menangkabau country, from whence it issues by the name of
Ayer Ambelan. Sloops tide it up for five or six weeks (as they assert),
anchoring as the ebb begins to make. From a place called Lubok ramo-ramo
they use boats of from five to twenty tons, and the smaller sort can
proceed until they are stopped by a fall or cascade at Seluka, on the
borders of Menangkabau. This extraordinary distance to which the
influence of the tides extends is a proof of the absolute flatness of the
country through which these rivers take the greater part of their course.

JAMBI.

Jambi River has its principal source in the Limun country. Although of
considerable size it is inferior to Siak and Indragiri. At an early stage
of European commerce in these parts it was of some importance, and both
the English and Dutch had factories there; the former on a small island
near the mouth, and the latter at some distance up the river. The town of
Jambi is situated at the distance of about sixty miles from the sea, and
we find in the work of the historian, Faria y Sousa, that in the year
1629 a Portuguese squadron was employed twenty-two days in ascending the
river, in order to destroy some Dutch ships which had taken shelter near
the town. Lionel Wafer, who was there in 1678 (at which time the river
was blockaded by a fleet of praws from Johor), makes the distance a
hundred miles. The trade consists chiefly in gold-dust, pepper, and
canes, but the most of what is collected of the first article proceeds
across the country to the western coast, and the quality of the second is
not held in esteem. The port is therefore but little frequented by any
other than native merchants. Sometimes, but rarely, a private trading
ship from Bengal endeavours to dispose of a few chests of opium in this
or one of the other rivers; but the masters scarcely ever venture on
shore, and deal with such of the Malays as come off to them at the sword
point, so strong is the idea of their treacherous character.

