PALEMBANG.

The kingdom of Palembang is one of considerable importance, and its river
ranks amongst the largest in the island. It takes its rise in the
district of Musi, immediately at the back of the range of hills visible
from Bencoolen, and on that account has the name of Ayer Musi in the
early part of its course, but in the lower is more properly named the
Tatong.

SIZE OF RIVER.

Opposite to the city of Palembang and the Dutch Company's factory it is
upwards of a mile in breadth, and is conveniently navigated by vessels
whose draft of water does not exceed fourteen feet. Those of a larger
description have been carried thither for military purposes (as in 1660,
when the place was attacked and destroyed by the Hollanders) but the
operation is attended with difficulty on account of numerous shoals.

FOREIGN TRADE.

The port is much frequented by trading vessels, chiefly from Java,
Madura, Balli, and Celebes, which bring rice, salt, and cloths, the
manufacture of those islands. With opium, the piece-goods of the west of
India, and European commodities it is supplied by the Dutch from Batavia,
or by those who are termed interlopers. These in return receive pepper
and tin, which, by an old agreement made with the sultan, and formally
renewed in 1777, are to be exclusively delivered to the Company at
stipulated prices, and no other Europeans are to be allowed to trade or
navigate within his jurisdiction.

DUTCH FACTORY.

In order to enforce these conditions the Dutch are permitted to maintain
a fort on the river with a garrison of fifty or sixty men (which cannot
be exceeded without giving umbrage), and to keep its own cruisers to
prevent smuggling. The quantity of pepper thus furnished was from one to
two millions of pounds per annum. Of tin the quantity was about two
millions of pounds, one third of which was shipped (at Batavia) for
Holland, and the remainder sent to China. It has already been stated that
this tin is the produce of the island of Bangka, situated near the mouth
of the river, which may be considered as an entire hill of tin-sand. The
works, of which a particular account is given in Volume 3 of the Batavian
Transactions, are entirely in the hands of Chinese settlers. In the year
1778 the Company likewise received thirty-seven thousand bundles of
rattans.

