The present rulers of the kingdom of Palembang and a great portion of the
inhabitants of the city originally came from the island of Java, in
consequence, as some suppose, of an early conquest by the sovereigns of
Majapahit; or, according to others, by those of Bantam, in more modern
times; and in proof of its subjection, either real or nominal, to the
latter, we find in the account of the first Dutch voyages, that "in 1596
a king of Bantam fell before Palembang, a rebel town of Sumatra, which he
was besieging."

ROYAL FAMILY.

The Dutch claim the honour of having placed on the throne the family of
the reigning sultan (1780), named Ratu Akhmet Bahar ed-din, whose eldest
son bears the title of Pangeran Ratu, answering to the RaJa muda of the
Malays. The power of the monarch is unlimited by any legal restriction,
but not keeping a regular body of troops in pay his orders are often
disregarded by the nobles. Although without any established revenue from
taxes or contributions, the profit arising from the trade of pepper and
tin (especially the latter) is so great, and the consequent influx of
silver, without any apparent outlet, so considerable, that he must
necessarily be possessed of treasure to a large amount. The customs on
merchandize imported remain in the hands of the shabhandaras, who are
required to furnish the king's household with provisions and other
necessaries. The domestic attendants on the prince are for the most part
females.

CURRENCY.

The currency of the country and the only money allowed to be received at
the king's treasury is Spanish dollars; but there is also in general
circulation a species of small base coin, issued by royal authority, and
named pitis. These are cut out of plates composed of lead and tin, and,
having a square hole in the middle (like the Chinese cash), are strung in
parcels of five hundred each, sixteen of which (according to the Batavian
Transactions) are equivalent to the dollar. In weighing gold the tail is
considered as the tenth part of the katti (of a pound and a third), or
equal to the weight of two Spanish dollars and a quarter.

