CITY.

The city is situated in a flat marshy tract, a few miles above the delta
of the river, about sixty miles from the sea, and yet so far from the
mountains of the interior that they are not visible. It extends about
eight miles along both banks, and is mostly confined to them and to the
creeks which open into the river. The buildings, with the exception of
the king's palace and mosque, being all of wood or bamboos standing on
posts and mostly covered with thatch of palm-leaves, the appearance of
the place has nothing to recommend it. There are also a great number of
floating habitations, mostly shops, upon bamboo-rafts moored to piles,
and when the owners of these are no longer pleased with their situation
they remove upwards or downwards, with the tide, to one more convenient.
Indeed, as the nature of the surrounding country, being overflowed in
high tides, scarcely admits of roads, almost all communication is carried
on by means of boats, which accordingly are seen moving by hundreds in
every direction, without intermission. The dalam or palace being
surrounded by a high wall, nothing is known to Europeans of the interior,
but it appears to be large, lofty, and much ornamented on the outside.
Immediately adjoining to this wall, on the lower side, is a strong,
square, roofed battery, commanding the river, and below it another; on
both of which many heavy cannon are mounted, and fired on particular
occasions. In the interval between the two batteries is seen the meidan
or plain, at the extremity of which appears the balerong or hall where
the sultan gives audience in public. This is an ordinary building, and
serving occasionally for a warehouse, but ornamented with weapons
arranged along the walls. The royal mosque stands behind the palace, and
from the style of architecture seems to have been constructed by a
European. It is an oblong building with glazed windows, pilasters, and a
cupola. The burial place of these sovereigns is at old Palembang, about a
league lower down the river, where the ground appears to be somewhat
raised from having long been the site of habitations.

