ENCOURAGEMENT TO FOREIGNERS.

The policy of these princes, who were themselves strangers, having always
been to encourage foreign settlers, the city an lower parts of the river
are in a great measure peopled with natives of China, Cochin­china,
Camboja, Siam, Patani on the coast of the peninsula, Java, Celebes, and
other eastern places. In addition to these the Arabian priests are
described by the Dutch as constituting a very numerous and pernicious
tribe, who, although in the constant practice of imposing upon and
plundering the credulous inhabitants, are held by them in the utmost
reverence.

RELIGION.

The Mahometan religion prevails throughout all the dominions of the
sultan, with the exception of a district near the sea­coast, called
Salang, where the natives, termed orang kubu, live in the woods like wild
animals. The literature of the country is said to be confined to the
study of the koran, but opinions of this kind I have found in other
instances to be too hastily formed, or by persons not competent to obtain
the necessary information.

LANGUAGE.

The language of the king and his court is the high dialect of the Javan,
mixed with some foreign idioms. In the general intercourse with strangers
the conversation is always in Malayan, with the pronunciation (already
noticed) of the final o for a.

CHARACTER OF INHABITANTS.

Amongst the people of Palembang themselves this language (the character
of which they employ) is mixed with the common Javan. The Dutch, on whom
we must rely for an account of the manners and disposition of these
people, and which will be found in Volume 3 page 122 of the Batavian
Transactions, describe those of the low country as devoid of every good
quality and imbued with every bad one; whilst those of the interior are
spoken of as a dull, simple people who show much forbearance under
oppression*; but it is acknowledged that of these last they have little
knowledge, owing to the extreme suspicion and jealousy of the government,
which takes alarm at any attempt to penetrate into the country.

