
CHAPTER 20.

THE COUNTRY OF THE BATTAS.
TAPPANULI-BAY.
JOURNEY INTO THE INTERIOR.
CASSIA-TREES.
GOVERNMENTS.
ARMS.
WARFARE.
TRADE.
FAIRS.
FOOD.
MANNERS.
LANGUAGE.
WRITING.
RELIGION.
FUNERALS.
CRIMES.
EXTRAORDINARY CUSTOM.

BATTAS.

One of the most considerable distinctions of people in the island, and by
many regarded as having the strongest claims to originality, is the
nation of the Battas (properly Batak), whose remarkable dissimilitude to
the other inhabitants, in the genius of their customs and manners, and
especially in some extraordinary usages, renders it necessary that a
particular degree of attention should be paid to their description.

SITUATION OF THE COUNTRY.

This country is bounded on the north by that of Achin, from which it is
separated by the mountains of Papa and Deira, and on the south by the
independent district of Rau or Rawa; extending along the sea-coast on the
western side from the river of Singkel to that of Tabuyong, but inland,
to the back of Ayer Bangis, and generally across the island, which is
narrow in that part, to the eastern coast; but more or less encroached
upon by the Malayan and Achinese establishments in the most convenient
maritime situations, for the purposes of their commerce. It is very
populous, and chiefly in the central parts, where are extensive open or
naked plains, on the borders (as it is said) of a great lake; the soil
fertile, and cultivation so much more prevalent than in the southern
countries, which are mostly covered with woods, that there is scarcely a
tree to be seen excepting those planted by the natives about their
villages, which are not, as elsewhere, on the banks of rivers, but
wherever a strong situation presents itself. Water indeed is not so
abundant as to the southward, which may be attributed to the
comparatively level surface, the chain of high mountains which extends
northwards from the straits of Sunda through the interior of the island,
in a great measure terminating with gunong Passummah or Mount Ophir.
About the bay of Tappanuli however the land is high and wooded near the
coast.

