July 1st. We left Sa-pisang and took a direction towards the hills,
following nearly the course of the Batang-tara. We travelled all this day
through a low, woody, and entirely uncultivated country, which afforded
nothing worthy of observation. Our guide had proposed to reach a kampong,
called Lumbu; but missing the road we were obliged to wade up the river
between four and five miles, and at length arrived at a ladang extremely
fatigued; where the badness of the weather obliged us to stop and take up
our quarters in an open padi-shed. The next day the river was so swelled
by the heavy rain which had fallen the preceding day that we could not
prosecute our journey, and were obliged to pass it and the remaining
night in the same uncomfortable situation. (This is the middle of the dry
season in the southern parts of the island.) July 3rd. We left the ladang
and walked through a very irregular and uninhabited tract, full of rocks
and covered with woods. We this day crossed a ridge of very steep and
high hills, and in the afternoon came to an inhabited and well-cultivated
country on the edge of the plains of Ancola. We slept this night in a
small open shed, and next day proceeded to a kampong called Koto Lambong.
July 5th. Went through a more open and very pleasant country to
Terimbaru, a large kampong on the southern edge of the plains of Ancola.
The land hereabout is entirely clear of wood, and either ploughed and
sown with padi or jagong (maize), or used as pasture for their numerous
herds of buffaloes, kine, and horses. The raja being informed of our
intentions to come there sent his son and between thirty and forty men,
armed with lances and matchlock guns, to meet us, who escorted us to
their kampong, beating gongs and firing their guns all the way. The raja
received us in great form, and with civility ordered a buffalo to be
killed, detained us a day, and when we proceeded on our journey sent his
son with a party to escort us. I observed that all the unmarried women
wore a great number of tin rings in their ears (some having fifty in each
ear), which circumstance, together with the appearance of the country,
seemed to indicate its abounding with minerals; but on making inquiry I
found that the tin was brought from the straits of Malacca. Having made
the accustomed presents to the raja we left Terimbaru, July 7th, and
proceeded to Sa-masam, the raja of which place, attended by sixty or
seventy men, well armed, met us and conducted us to his kampong, where he
had prepared a house for our reception, treating us with much hospitality
and respect. The country round Sa-masam is full of small hills but clear
of wood, and mostly pasture ground for their cattle, of which they have
great abundance. I met with nothing remarkable here excepting a prickly
shrub called by the natives Andalimon, the seed-vessels and leaves of
which have a very agreeable spicy taste, and are used by them in their
curries.

