FORTIFICATIONS.

They fortify their kampongs with large ramparts of earth, halfway up
which they plant brushwood. There is a ditch without the rampart, and on
each side of that a tall palisade of camphor timber. Beyond this is an
impenetrable hedge of prickly bamboo, which when of sufficient growth
acquires an extraordinary density, and perfectly conceals all appearance
of a town. Ranjaus, of a length both for the body and the feet, are
disposed without all these, and render the approaches hazardous to
assailants who are almost naked. At each corner of the fortress, instead
of a tower or watch-house, they contrive to have a tall tree, which they
ascend to reconnoitre or fire from. But they are not fond of remaining on
the defensive in these fortified villages, and therefore, leaving a few
to guard them, usually advance into the plains, and throw up temporary
breast-works and entrenchments.

TRADE.

The natives of the sea-coast exchange their benzoin, camphor, and cassia
(the quantity of gold-dust is very inconsiderable) for iron, steel,
brass-wire, and salt, of which last article a hundred thousand bamboo
measures are annually taken off in the bay of Tappanuli. These they
barter again with the more inland inhabitants, in the mode that shall
presently be described, for the products and manufactures of the country,
particularly the home-made cloth; a very small quantity of cotton
piece-goods being imported from the coast and disposed of to the natives.
What they do take off is chiefly blue-cloth for the head, and chintz.

FAIRS HELD.

For the convenience of carrying on the inland-trade there are established
at the back of Tappanuli, which is their great mart, four stages, at
which successively they hold public fairs or markets on every fourth day
throughout the year; each fair, of course, lasting one day. The people in
the district of the fourth stage assemble with their goods at the
appointed place, to which those of the third resort in order to purchase
them. The people of the third, in like manner, supply the wants of the
second, and the second of the first, who dispose, on the day the market
is held, of the merchandise for which they have trafficked with the
Europeans and Malays. On these occasions all hostilities are suspended.
Each man who possesses a musket carries it with a green bough in the
muzzle, as a token of peace, and afterwards, when he comes to the spot,
following the example of the director or manager of the party, discharges
the loading into a mound of earth, in which, before his departure, he
searches for his ball. There is but one house at the place where the
market is held, and that is for the purpose of gaming. The want of booths
is supplied by the shade of regular rows of fruit-trees, mostly durian,
of which one avenue is reserved for the women. The dealings are conducted
with order and fairness; the chief remaining at a little distance, to be
referred to in case of dispute, and a guard is at hand, armed with
lances, to keep the peace; yet with all this police, which bespeaks
civilization, I have been assured by those who have had an opportunity of
attending their meetings that in the whole of their appearance and
deportment there is more of savage life than is observed in the manners
of the Rejangs, or inhabitants of Lampong. Traders from the remoter Batta
districts, lying north and south, assemble at these periodical markets,
where all their traffic is carried on, and commodities bartered. They are
not however peculiar to this country, being held, among other places, at
Batang-kapas and Ipu. By the Malays they are termed onan.

