
CHAPTER 22.

HISTORY OF THE KINGDOM OF ACHIN, FROM THE PERIOD OF ITS BEING VISITED BY
EUROPEANS.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE PORTUGUESE.

The Portuguese, under the conduct of Vasco de Gama, doubled the Cape of
Good Hope in the year 1497, and arrived on the coast of Malabar in the
following year. These people, whom the spirit of glory, commerce, and
plunder led to the most magnanimous undertakings, were not so entirely
engaged by their conquests on the continent of India as to prevent them
from extending their views to the discovery of regions yet more distant.
They learned from the merchants of Guzerat some account of the riches and
importance of Malacca, a great trading city in the farther peninsula of
India, supposed by them the Golden Chersonnese of Ptolemy. Intelligence
of this was transmitted to their enterprising sovereign Emanuel, who
became impressed with a strong desire to avail himself of the flattering
advantages which this celebrated country held out to his ambition.

1508.

He equipped a fleet of four ships under the command of Diogo Lopez de
Sequeira, which sailed from Lisbon on the eighth day of April 1508 with
orders to explore and establish connexions in those eastern parts of
Asia.

1509.

After touching at Madagascar Sequeira proceeded to Cochin, where a ship
was added to his fleet, and, departing from thence on the eighth of
September 1509, he made sail towards Malacca; but having doubled the
extreme promontory of Sumatra (then supposed to be the Taprobane of the
ancients) he anchored at Pidir, a principal port of that island, in which
he found vessels from Pegu, Bengal, and other countries. The king of the
place, who, like other Mahometan princes, was styled sultan, sent off a
deputation to him, accompanied with refreshments, excusing himself, on
account of illness, from paying his compliments in person, but assuring
him at the same time that he should derive much pleasure from the
friendship and alliance of the Portuguese, whose fame had reached his
ears. Sequeira answered this message in such terms that, by consent of
the sultan, a monument of their amity was erected on the shore; or, more
properly, as the token of discovery and possession usually employed by
the European nations. He was received in the same manner at a place
called Pase, lying about twenty leagues farther to the eastward on the
same coast, and there also erected a monument or cross. Having procured
at each of these ports as much pepper as could be collected in a short
time he hastened to Malacca, where the news of his appearance in these
seas had anticipated his arrival. Here he was near falling a sacrifice to
the insidious policy of Mahmud, the reigning king, to whom the Portuguese
had been represented by the Arabian and Persian merchants (and not very
unjustly) as lawless pirates, who, under the pretext of establishing
commercial treaties, had, at first by encroachments, and afterwards with
insolent rapacity, ruined and enslaved the princes who were weak enough
to put a confidence in them, or to allow them a footing in their
dominions. He escaped the snares that were laid for him but lost many of
his people, and, leaving others in captivity, he returned to Europe, and
gave an account of his proceedings to the king.

