1514.

After some years had elapsed, at the time when Jorge Alboquerque was
governor of Malacca, this king (Abdallah by name) persisting in his
views, paid him a visit, and was honourably received. At his departure he
had assurances given him of liberty to establish himself at Malacca, if
he should think proper, and Nina Chetuan was shortly afterwards removed
from his office, though no fault was alleged against him. He took the
disgrace so much to heart that, causing a pile to be erected before his
door, and setting fire to it, he threw himself into the flames.*

(*Footnote. This man was not a Mahometan but one of the unconverted
natives of the peninsula who are always distinguished from the Moors by
the Portuguese writers.)

The intention of appointing Abdallah to the office of bandhara was
quickly rumoured abroad, and, coming to the knowledge of the king of
Bintang, who was driven from Malacca and now carried on a vigorous war
against the Portuguese, under the command of the famous Laksamana, he
resolved to prevent his arrival there. For this purpose he leagued
himself with the king of Lingga, a neighbouring island, and sent out a
fleet of seventy armed boats to block up the port of Kampar. By the
valour of a small Portuguese armament this force was overcome in the
river of that name, and the king conducted in triumph to Malacca, where
he was invested in form with the important post he aspired to. But this
sacrifice of his independence proved an unfortunate measure to him; for
although he conducted himself in such a manner as should have given the
amplest satisfaction, and appears to have been irreproachable in the
execution of his trust, yet in the following year the king of Bintang
found means to inspire the governor with diffidence of his fidelity, and
jealousy of his power.

1515.

He was cruelly sentenced to death without the simplest forms of justice
and perished in the presence of an indignant multitude, whilst he called
heaven to witness his innocence and direct its vengeance against his
interested accusers. This iniquitous and impolitic proceeding had such an
effect upon the minds of the people that all of any property or repute
forsook the place, execrating the government of the Portuguese. The
consequences of this general odium reduced them to extreme difficulties
for provisions, which the neighbouring countries refused to supply them
with, and but for some grain at length procured from Siak with much
trouble the event had proved fatal to the garrison.

