(*Footnote. Evidently corrupted, as are most of the country names and
titles, which shows that the Portuguese were not at this period much
conversant in the Malayan language.)

When Jeinal entered upon the administration of the political concerns of
the kingdom, although he had promised his father-in-law to carry on the
war in concert with him, yet, being apprehensive of the effects of the
Portuguese power, he judged it more for his interest to seek a
reconciliation with them than to provoke their resentment, and in
pursuance of that system had so far recommended himself to Garcia de Sa,
the governor of Malacca, that he formed a treaty of alliance with him.
This was however soon interrupted, and chiefly by the imprudence of a man
named Diogo Vaz, who made use of such insulting language to the king,
because he delayed payment of a sum of money he owed him, that the
courtiers, seized with indignation, immediately stabbed him with their
krises, and, the alarm running through the city, others of the Portuguese
were likewise murdered. The news of this affair, reaching Goa, was an
additional motive for the resolution taken of dethroning him.

1521.

Jorge d'Alboquerque arrived at Pase in 1521 with Prince Orfacam, and the
inhabitants came off in great numbers to welcome his return. The king of
Aru had brought thither a considerable force the preceding day, designing
to take satisfaction for the murder of his relation, the uncle of Jeinal,
and now proposed to Alboquerque that they should make the attack in
conjunction, who thought proper to decline it. Jeinal, although he well
knew the intention of the enemy, yet sent a friendly message to
Alboquerque, who in answer required him to relinquish his crown in favour
of him whom he styled the lawful prince. He then represented to him the
injustice of attempting to force him from the possession of what was his,
not only by right of conquest but of hereditary descent, as was well
known to the governor himself; that he was willing to consider himself as
the vassal of the king of Portugal, and to grant every advantage in point
of trade that they could expect from the administration of his rival; and
that since his obtaining the crown he had manifested the utmost
friendship to the Portuguese, for which he appealed to the treaty formed
with him by the government of Malacca, which was not disturbed by any
fault that could in justice be imputed to himself. These arguments, like
all others that pass between states which harbour inimical designs, had
no effect upon Alboquerque, who, after reconnoitring the ground, gave
orders for the attack. The king was now sensible that there was nothing
left for him but to conquer or die, and resolved to defend himself to
extremity in an entrenchment he had formed at some distance from the town
of Pase, where he had never yet ventured to reside as the people were in
general incensed against him on account of the destruction of the late
king of their choice; for though they were ever ready to demolish those
whom they disliked, yet were they equally zealous to sacrifice their own
lives in the cause of those to whom they were attached. The Portuguese
force consisted but of three hundred men, yet such was the superiority
they possessed in war over the inhabitants of these countries that they
entirely routed Jeinal's army, which amounted to three thousand, with
many elephants, although they fought bravely. When he fell they became
dispirited, and, the people of Aru joining in the pursuit, a dreadful
slaughter succeeded, and upwards of two thousand Sumatrans lay dead, with
the loss of only five or six Europeans; but several were wounded, among
whom was Alboquerque himself.

