The next measure was to place the young prince upon the throne, which was
performed with much ceremony. The mulana was appointed his governor, and
Nina Cunapan, who in several instances had shown a friendship for the
Portuguese, was continued in the office of Shabandar. It was stipulated
that the prince should do homage to the crown of Portugal, give a grant
of the whole produce of pepper of his country at a certain price, and
defray the charges of a fortress which they then prepared to erect in his
kingdom, and of which Miranda d'Azeuedo was appointed captain, with a
garrison of a hundred soldiers. The materials were mostly timber, with
which the ruins of Jeinal's entrenchment supplied them. After
Alboquerque's departure the works had nearly fallen into the hands of an
enemy, named Melek-el-adil, who called himself sultan of Pase and made
several desultory attacks upon them; but he was at length totally routed,
and the fortifications were completed without further molestation.

1521.

A fleet which sailed from the west of India a short time after that of
Alboquerque, under the command of Jorge de Brito, anchored in the road of
Achin, in their way to the Molucca Islands. There was at this time at
that place a man of the name of Joano Borba, who spoke the language of
the country, having formerly fled thither from Pase when Diogo Vaz was
assassinated. Being afterwards intrusted with the command of a trading
vessel from Goa, which foundered at sea, he again reached Achin, with
nine men in a small boat, and was hospitably received by the king, when
he learned that the ship had been destined to his port. Borba came off to
the fleet along with a messenger sent by the king to welcome the
commander and offer him refreshments for his fleet, and, being a man of
extraordinary loquacity, he gave a pompous description to Brito of a
temple in the country in which was deposited a large quantity of gold: he
mentioned likewise that the king was in possession of the artillery and
merchandise of Gaspar d'Acosta's vessel, some time since wrecked there;
and also of the goods saved from a brigantine driven on shore at Daya, in
Pacheco's expedition; as well as of Joano de Lima's ship, which he had
caused to be cut off. Brito, being tempted by the golden prize, which he
conceived already in his power, and inflamed by Borba's representation of
the king's iniquities, sent a message in return to demand the restitution
of the artillery, ship, and goods, which had been unlawfully seized. The
king replied that, if he wanted those articles to be refunded, he must
make his demand to the sea which had swallowed them up. Brito and his
captains now resolved to proceed to an attack upon the place, and so
secure did they make themselves of their prey that they refused
permission to a ship lately arrived, and which did not belong to their
squadron, to join them or participate in the profits of their adventure.
They prepared to land two hundred men in small boats; a larger, with a
more considerable detachment and their artillery, being ordered to
follow. About daybreak they had proceeded halfway up the river, and came
near to a little fort designed to defend the passage, where Brito thought
it advisable to stop till the remainder of their force should join them;
but, being importuned by his people, he advanced to make himself master
of the fort, which was readily effected. Here he again resolved to make
his stand, but by the imprudence of his ensign, who had drawn some of the
party into a skirmish with the Achinese, he was forced to quit that post
in order to save his colours, which were in danger. At this juncture the
king appeared at the head of eight hundred or a thousand men, and six
elephants. A desperate conflict ensued, in which the Portuguese received
considerable injury. Brito sent orders for the party he had left to come
up, and endeavoured to retreat to the fort, but he found himself so
situated that it could not be executed without much loss, and presently
after he received a wound from an arrow through the cheeks. No assistance
arriving, it was proposed that they should retire in the best manner they
could to their boats; but this Brito would not consent to, preferring
death to flight, and immediately a lance pierced his thighs, and he fell
to the ground. The Portuguese, rendered desperate, renewed the combat
with redoubled vigour, all crowding to the spot where their commander
lay, but their exertions availed them nothing against such unequal force,
and they only rushed on to sacrifice. Almost every man was killed, and
among these were near fifty persons of family who had embarked as
volunteers. Those who escaped belonged chiefly to the corps-de-reserve,
who did not, or could not, come up in time to succour their unfortunate
companions. Upon this merited defeat the squadron immediately weighed
anchor, and, after falling in with two vessels bound on the discovery of
the Ilhas d'Ouro, arrived at Pase, where they found Alboquerque employed
in the construction of his fortress, and went with him to make an attack
on Bintang.

