Henriquez, perceiving his situation at Pase was becoming critical, not
only from the force of the enemy but the sickly state of his garrison,
and the want of provisions, which the country people now withheld from
him, discontinuing the fairs that they were used to keep three times in
the week, dispatched advices to the governor of India, demanding
immediate succours, and also sent to request assistance of the king of
Aru, who had always proved the steadfast friend of Malacca, and who,
though not wealthy, because his country was not a place of trade, was yet
one of the most powerful princes in those parts. The king expressed his
joy in having an opportunity of serving his allies, and promised his
utmost aid; not only from friendship to them, but indignation against
Ibrahim, whom he regarded as a rebellious slave.

1523.

A supply of stores at length arrived from India under the charge of Lopo
d'Azuedo, who had orders to relieve Henriquez in the command; but,
disputes having arisen between them, and chiefly on the subject of
certain works which the shabandar of Pase had been permitted to erect
adjoining to the fortress, d'Azuedo, to avoid coming to an open rupture,
departed for Malacca. Ibrahim, having found means to corrupt the honesty
of this shabandar, who had received his office from Alboquerque, gained
intelligence through him of all that passed. This treason, it is
supposed, he would not have yielded to but for the desperate situation of
affairs. The country of Pase was now entirely in subjection to the
Achinese, and nothing remained unconquered but the capital, whilst the
garrison was distracted with internal divisions.

After the acquisition of Pidir the king thought it necessary to remain
there some time in order to confirm his authority, and sent his brother
Raja Lella with a large army to reduce the territories of Pase, which he
effected in the course of three months, and with the more facility
because all the principal nobility had fallen in the action with Jeinal.
He fixed his camp within half a league of the city, and gave notice to
Ibrahim of the state in which matters were, who speedily joined him,
being anxious to render himself master of the place before the promised
succours from the king of Aru could arrive. His first step was to issue a
proclamation, giving notice to the people of the town that whoever should
submit to his authority within six days should have their lives,
families, and properties secured to them, but that all others must expect
to feel the punishment due to their obstinacy. This had the effect he
looked for, the greater part of the inhabitants coming over to his camp.
He then commenced his military operations, and in the third attack got
possession of the town after much slaughter; those who escaped his fury
taking shelter in the neighbouring mountains and thick woods. He sent a
message to the commander of the fortress, requiring him to abandon it and
to deliver into his hands the kings of Pidir and Daya, to whom he had
given protection. Henriquez returned a spirited answer to this summons,
but, being sickly at the time, at best of an unsteady disposition, and
too much attached to his trading concerns for a soldier, he resolved to
relinquish the command to his relation Aires Coelho, and take passage for
the West of India.

