1523.

He had not advanced farther on his voyage than the point of Pidir, when
he fell in with two Portuguese ships bound to the Moluccas, the captains
of which he made acquainted with the situation of the garrison, and they
immediately proceeded to its relief. Arriving in the night they heard
great firing of cannon, and learned next morning that the Achinese had
made a furious assault in hopes of carrying the fortress before the
ships, which were descried at a distance, could throw succours into it.
They had mastered some of the outworks, and the garrison represented that
it was impossible for them to support such another shock without aid from
the vessels. The captains, with as much force as could be spared, entered
the fort, and a sally was shortly afterwards resolved on and executed, in
which the besiegers sustained considerable damage. Every effort was
likewise employed to repair the breaches and stop up the mines that had
been made by the enemy in order to effect a passage into the place.
Ibrahim now attempted to draw them into a snare by removing his camp to a
distance and making a feint of abandoning his enterprise; but this
stratagem proved ineffectual. Reflecting then with indignation that his
own force consisted of fifteen thousand men whilst that of the Europeans
did not exceed three hundred and fifty, many of whom were sick and
wounded, and others worn out with the fatigue of continual duty
(intelligence whereof was conveyed to him), he resolved once more to
return to the siege, and make a general assault upon all parts of the
fortification at once. Two hours before daybreak he caused the place to
be surrounded with eight thousand men, who approached in perfect silence.
The nighttime was preferred by these people for making their attacks as
being then most secure from the effect of firearms, and they also
generally chose a time of rain, when the powder would not burn. As soon
as they found themselves perceived they set up a hideous shout, and,
fixing their scaling ladders, made of bamboo and wonderfully light, to
the number of six hundred, they attempted to force their way through the
embrasures for the guns; but after a strenuous contest they were at
length repulsed. Seven elephants were driven with violence against the
paling of one of the bastions, which gave way before them like a hedge,
and overset all the men who were on it. Javelins and pikes these enormous
beasts made no account of, but upon setting fire to powder under their
trunks they drew back with precipitation in spite of all the efforts of
their drivers, overthrew their own people, and, flying to the distance of
several miles, could not again be brought into the lines. The Achinese
upon receiving this check thought to take revenge by setting fire to some
vessels that were in the dockyard; but this proved an unfortunate measure
to them, for by the light which it occasioned the garrison were enabled
to point their guns, and did abundant execution.

