In order that he might learn the causes of the obscurity in which his
negotiations with Malacca rested, Ibrahim dispatched a secret messenger
to Senaia Raja, bandhara of that city, with whom he held a
correspondence; desiring also to be informed of the strength of the
garrison. Hearing in answer that the governor newly arrived was inclined
to think favourably of him, he immediately sent an ambassador to wait on
him with assurances of his pacific and friendly disposition, who returned
in company with persons empowered, on the governor's part, to negotiate a
treaty of commerce. These, upon their arrival at Achin, were loaded with
favours and costly presents, the news of which quickly flew to Malacca,
and, the business they came on being adjusted, they were suffered to
depart; but they had not sailed far before they were overtaken by boats
sent after them, and were stripped and murdered. The governor, who had
heard of their setting out, concluded they were lost by accident.
Intelligence of this mistaken opinion was transmitted to the king, who
thereupon had the audacity to request that he might be honoured with the
presence of some Portuguese of rank and consequence in his capital, to
ratify in a becoming manner the articles that had been drawn up; as he
ardently wished to see that nation trafficking freely in his dominions.

1529.

The deluded governor, in compliance with this request, adopted the
resolution of sending thither a large ship under the command of Manuel
Pacheco, with a rich cargo, the property of himself and several merchants
of Malacca, who themselves embarked with the idea of making extraordinary
profits. Senaia conveyed notice of this preparation to Achin, informing
the king at the same time that, if he could make himself master of this
vessel, Malacca must fall an easy prey to him, as the place was weakened
of half its force for the equipment. When Pacheco approached the harbour
he was surrounded by a great number of boats, and some of the people
began to suspect treachery, but so strongly did the spirit of delusion
prevail in this business that they could not persuade the captain to put
himself on his guard. He soon had reason to repent his credulity.
Perceiving an arrow pass close by him, he hastened to put on his coat of
mail, when a second pierced his neck, and he soon expired. The vessel
then became an easy prey, and the people, being made prisoners, were
shortly afterwards massacred by the king's order, along with the
unfortunate remnant of De Sousa's crew, so long flattered with the hopes
of release. By this capture the king was supposed to have remained in
possession of more artillery than was left in Malacca, and he immediately
fitted out a fleet to take advantage of its exposed state. The pride of
success causing him to imagine it already in his power, he sent a
taunting message to the governor in which he thanked him for the late
instances of his liberality, and let him know he should trouble him for
the remainder of his naval force.

