1602.

The first English fleet that made its appearance in this part of the
world, and laid the foundation of a commerce which was in time to eclipse
that of every other European state, arrived at Achin in June 1602. Sir
James Lancaster, who commanded it, was received by the king with abundant
ceremony and respect, which seem with these monarchs to have been usually
proportioned to the number of vessels and apparent strength of their
foreign guests. The queen of England's letter was conveyed to court with
great pomp, and the general, after delivering a rich present, the most
admired article of which was a fan of feathers, declared the purpose of
his coming was to establish peace and amity between his royal mistress
and her loving brother, the great and mighty king of Achin. He was
invited to a banquet prepared for his entertainment, in which the service
was of gold, and the king's damsels, who were richly attired and adorned
with bracelets and jewels, were ordered to divert him with dancing and
music. Before he retired he was arrayed by the king in a magnificent
habit of the country, and armed with two krises. In the present sent as a
return for the queen's there was, among other matters, a valuable ruby
set in a ring. Two of the nobles, one of whom was the chief priest, were
appointed to settle with Lancaster the terms of a commercial treaty,
which was accordingly drawn up and executed in an explicit and regular
manner. The Portuguese ambassador, or more properly the Spanish, as those
kingdoms were now united, kept a watchful and jealous eye upon his
proceedings; but by bribing the spies who surrounded him he foiled them
at their own arts, and acquired intelligence that enabled him to take a
rich prize in the straits of Malacca, with which he returned to Achin;
and, having loaded what pepper he could procure there, took his departure
in November of the same year. On this occasion it was requested by the
king that he and his officers would favour him by singing one of the
psalms of David, which was performed with much solemnity.

