Very little is known of the military transactions of this reign, and no
conquest but that of Pase is recorded. He had two sons, the younger of
whom he made king of Pidir, and the elder, styled Sultan Muda, he kept at
Achin, in order to succeed him in the throne. In the year 1603 he
resolved to divide the charge of government with his intended heir, as he
found his extraordinary age began to render him unequal to the task, and
accordingly invested him with royal dignity; but the effect which might
have been foreseen quickly followed this measure. The son, who was
already advanced in years, became impatient to enjoy more complete power,
and, thinking his father had possessed the crown sufficiently long, he
confined him in a prison, where his days were soon ended.

1604.

The exact period at which this event took place is not known, but,
calculating from the duration of his reign as stated in the Annals, it
must have been early in the year 1604.* He was then ninety-five years of
age,** and described to be a hale man, but extremely gross and fat.

(*Footnote. The Dutch commander Joris van Spilbergen took leave of him in
April 1603, and his ambassador to Holland, who returned in December,
1604, found his son on the throne, according to Valentyn. Commodore
Beaulieu says he died in 1603.)

(**Footnote. According to Beaulieu Davis says he was about a hundred; and
the Dutch voyages mention that his great age prevented his ever appearing
out of his palace.)

His constitution must have been uncommonly vigorous, and his muscular
strength is indicated by this ludicrous circumstance, that when he once
condescended to embrace a Dutch admiral, contrary to the usual manners of
his country, the pressure of his arms was so violent as to cause
excessive pain to the person so honoured. He was passionately addicted to
women, gaming, and drink, his favourite beverage being arrack. By the
severity of his punishments he kept his subjects in extreme awe of him;
and the merchants were obliged to submit to more exactions and
oppressions than were felt under the government of his predecessors. The
seizure of certain vessels belonging to the people of Bantam and other
arbitrary proceedings of that nature are said to have deterred the
traders of India from entering into his ports.

