This king, whom the Annals name Iskander Muda, was known to our
travellers by the title of sultan Paduka Sri (words equivalent to most
gracious), sovereign of Achin and of the countries of Aru, Dilli, Johor,
Pahang, Kedah, and Perak on the one side, and of Barus, Pasaman, Tiku,
Sileda, and Priaman on the other. Some of these places were conquered by
him, and others he inherited.

1613.

He showed much friendship to the Hollanders in the early part of his
reign; and in the year 1613 gave permission to the English to settle a
factory, granting them many indulgences, in consequence of a letter and
present from king James the first. He bestowed on Captain Best, who was
the bearer of them, the title of orang kaya putih, and entertained him
with the fighting of elephants, buffaloes, rams, and tigers. His answer
to king James (a translation of which is to be found in Purchas) is
couched in the most friendly terms, and he there styles himself king of
all Sumatra. He expressed a strong desire that the king of England should
send him one of his countrywomen to wife, and promised to make her eldest
son king of all the pepper countries, that so the English might be
supplied with that commodity by a monarch of their own nation. But
notwithstanding his strong professions of attachment to us, and his
natural connexion with the Hollanders, arising from their joint enmity to
the Portuguese, it was not many years before he began to oppress both
nations and use his endeavours to ruin their trade. He became jealous of
their growing power, and particularly in consequence of intelligence that
reached him concerning the encroachments made by the latter in the island
of Java.

The conquest of Aru seems never to have been thoroughly effected by the
kings of Achin. Paduka Sri carried his arms thither and boasted of having
obtained some victories.

1613.

In 1613 he subdued Siak in its neighbourhood. Early in the same year he
sent an expedition against the kingdom of Johor (which had always
maintained a political connexion with Aru) and, reducing the city after a
siege of twenty-nine days, plundered it of everything moveable, and made
slaves of the miserable inhabitants. The king fled to the island of
Bintang, but his youngest brother and coadjutor was taken prisoner and
carried to Achin. The old king of Johor, who had so often engaged the
Portuguese, left three sons, the eldest of whom succeeded him by the
title of Iang de per-tuan.*

