(*Footnote. This is not an individual title or proper name, but signifies
the sovereign or reigning monarch. In like manner Rega Bongsu signifies
the king's youngest brother, as Raja Muda does the heir apparent.)

The second was made king of Siak, and the third, called Raja Bongsu,
reigned jointly with the first. He it was who assisted the Hollanders in
the first siege of Malacca, and corresponded with Prince Maurice. The
king of Achin was married to their sister, but this did not prevent a
long and cruel war between them. A Dutch factory at Johor was involved in
the consequences of this war, and several of that nation were among the
prisoners. In the course of the same year however the king of Achin
thought proper to establish Raja Bongsu on the throne of Johor, sending
him back for that purpose with great honours, assisting him to rebuild
the fort and city, and giving him one of his own sisters in marriage.

1615.

In 1615 the king of Achin sailed to the attack of Malacca in a fleet
which he had been four years employed in preparing. It consisted of above
five hundred sail, of which a hundred were large galleys, greater than
any at that time built in Europe, carrying each from six to eight hundred
men, with three large cannon and several smaller pieces. These galleys
the orang kayas were obliged to furnish, repair, and man, at the peril of
their lives. The soldiers served without pay, and carried three months
provision at their own charge. In this great fleet there were computed to
be sixty thousand men, whom the king commanded in person. His wives and
household were taken to sea with him. Coming in sight of the Portuguese
ships in the afternoon, they received many shot from them but avoided
returning any, as if from contempt. The next day they got ready for
battle, and drew up in form of a half moon. A desperate engagement took
place and lasted without intermission till midnight, during which the
Portuguese admiral was three times boarded, and repeatedly on fire. Many
vessels on both sides were also in flames and afforded light to continue
the combat. At length the Achinese gave way, after losing fifty sail of
different sizes, and twenty thousand men. They retired to Bancalis, on
the eastern coast of Sumatra, and shortly afterwards sailed for Achin,
the Portuguese not daring to pursue their victory, both on account of the
damage they had sustained and their apprehension of the Hollanders, who
were expected at Malacca. The king proposed that the prisoners taken
should be mutually given up, which was agreed to, and was the first
instance of that act of humanity and civilisation between the two powers.

