1619.

Three years afterwards the king made a conquest of the cities of Kedah
and Perak on the Malayan coast, and also of a place called Dilli in
Sumatra. This last had been strongly fortified by the assistance of the
Portuguese, and gave an opportunity of displaying much skill in the
attack. Trenches were regularly opened before it and a siege carried on
for six weeks ere it fell. In the same year the king of Jorcan (a place
unknown at present by that name) fled for refuge to Malacca with eighty
sail of boats, having been expelled his dominions by the king of Achin.
The Portuguese were not in a condition to afford him relief, being
themselves surrounded with enemies and fearful of an attack from the
Achinese more especially; but the king was then making preparations
against an invasion he heard was meditated by the viceroy of Goa.
Reciprocal apprehensions kept each party on the defensive.

1621.

The French being desirous of participating in the commerce of Achin, of
which all the European nations had formed great ideas, and all found
themselves disappointed in, sent out a squadron commanded by General
Beaulieu, which arrived in January 1621, and finally left it in December
of the same year. He brought magnificent presents to the king, but these
did not content his insatiable avarice, and he employed a variety of mean
arts to draw from him further gifts. Beaulieu met also with many
difficulties, and was forced to submit to much extortion in his
endeavours to procure a loading of pepper, of which Achin itself, as has
been observed, produced but little. The king informed him that he had
some time since ordered all the plants to be destroyed, not only because
the cultivation of them proved an injury to more useful agriculture, but
also lest their produce might tempt the Europeans to serve him, as they
had served the kings of Jakatra and Bantam. From this apprehension he had
lately been induced to expel the English and Dutch from their settlements
at Priaman and Tiku, where the principal quantity of pepper was procured,
and of which places he changed the governor every third year to prevent
any connexions dangerous to his authority from being formed. He had
likewise driven the Dutch from a factory they were attempting to settle
at Padang; which place appears to be the most remote on the western coast
of the island to which the Achinese conquests at any time extended.

