1635.

This signal defeat proved so important a blow to the power of Achin that
we read of no further attempts to renew the war until the year 1635, when
the king, encouraged by the feuds which at this time prevailed in
Malacca, again violated the law of nations, to him little known, by
imprisoning their ambassador, and caused all the Portuguese about his
court to be murdered. No military operations however immediately took
place in consequence of this barbarous proceeding.

1640. 1641.

In the year 1640 the Dutch with twelve men of war, and the king of Achin
with twenty-five galleys, appeared before that harassed and devoted city;
which at length, in the following year was wrested from the hands of the
Portuguese, who had so long, through such difficulties, maintained
possession of it. This year was also marked by the death of the sultan,
whom the Dutch writers name Paduka Sri, at the age of sixty, after a
reign of thirty-five years; having just lived to see his hereditary foe
subdued; and as if the opposition of the Portuguese power, which seems
first to have occasioned the rise of that of Achin, was also necessary to
its existence, the splendour and consequence of the kingdom from that
period rapidly declined.

The prodigious wealth and resources of the monarchy during his reign are
best evinced by the expeditions he was enabled to fit out; but being no
less covetous than ambitious he contrived to make the expenses fall upon
his subjects, and at the same time filled his treasury with gold by
pressing the merchants and plundering the neighbouring states. An
intelligent person (General Beaulieu), who was for some time at his
court, and had opportunities of information on the subject, uses this
strong expression--that he was infinitely rich. He constantly employed in
his castle three hundred goldsmiths. This would seem an exaggeration, but
that it is well known the Malayan princes have them always about them in
great numbers at this day, working in the manufacture of filigree, for
which the country is so famous. His naval strength has been already
sufficiently described. He was possessed of two thousand brass guns and
small arms in proportion. His trained elephants amounted to some
hundreds. His armies were probably raised only upon the occasion which
called for their acting, and that in a mode similar to what was
established under the feudal system in Europe. The valley of Achin alone
was said to be able to furnish forty thousand men upon an emergency. A
certain number of warriors however were always kept on foot for the
protection of the king and his capital. Of these the superior class were
called ulubalang, and the inferior amba-raja, who were entirely devoted
to his service and resembled the janizaries of Constantinople. Two
hundred horsemen nightly patrolled the grounds about the castle, the
inner courts and apartments of which were guarded by three thousand
women. The king's eunuchs amounted to five hundred.

