About 1666 the English establishments at Achin and some ports to the
southward appear to have given considerable umbrage to their rivals.

1669.

In 1669 the people of Dilli on the north-eastern coast threw off their
allegiance, and the power of the kingdom became gradually more and more
circumscribed.

1675.

This queen died in 1675, after reigning, with a degree of tranquillity
little known in these countries, upwards of thirty-four years.

The people being now accustomed and reconciled to female rule, which they
found more lenient than that of their kings, acquiesced in general in the
established mode of government.

1677.

And she was immediately succeeded by another female monarch, named Nur
al-alum, who reigned little more than two years and died in 1677.

The queen who succeeded her was named Anayet-shah.

1684.

In the year 1684 she received an embassy from the English government of
Madras, and appeared at that time to be about forty years. The persons
who were on this occasion presented to her express their suspicions,
which were suggested to them by a doubt prevailing amongst the
inhabitants, that this sovereign was not a real queen, but a eunuch
dressed up in female apparel, and imposed on the public by the artifices
of the orang kayas. But as such a cheat, though managed with every
semblance of reality (which they observe was the case) could not be
carried on for any number of years without detection, and as the same
idea does not appear to have been entertained at any other period, it is
probable they were mistaken in their surmise. Her person they describe to
have been large, and her voice surprisingly strong, but not manly.*

(*Footnote. The following curious passage is extracted from the journal
of these gentlemen's proceedings. "We went to give our attendance at the
palace this day as customary. Being arrived at the place of audience with
the orang cayos, the queen was pleased to order us to come nearer, when
her majesty was very inquisitive into the use of our wearing periwigs,
and what was the convenience of them; to all which we returned
satisfactory answers. After this her majesty desired of Mr. Ord, if it
were no affront to him, that he would take off his periwig, that she
might see how he appeared without it; which, according to her majesty's
request, he did. She then told us she had heard of our business, and
would give her answer by the orang cayos; and so we retired." I venture,
with submission, to observe that this anecdote seems to put the question
of the sex beyond controversy.)

