The purport of the embassy was to obtain liberty to erect a fortification
in her territory, which she peremptorily refused, being contrary to the
established rules of the kingdom; adding that if the governor of Madras
would fill her palace with gold she could not permit him to build with
brick either fort or house. To have a factory of timber and plank was the
utmost indulgence that could be allowed; and on that footing the return
of the English, who had not traded there for many years, should be
welcomed with great friendship. The queen herself, the orang kayas
represented, was not allowed to fortify lest some foreign power might
avail themselves of it to enslave the country. In the course of these
negotiations it was mentioned that the agriculture of Achin had suffered
considerably of late years by reason of a general licence given to all
the inhabitants to search for gold in the mountains and rivers which
afforded that article; whereas the business had formerly been restricted
to certain authorized persons, and the rest obliged to till the ground.

1684.

The court feared to give a public sanction for the settlement of the
English on any part of the southern coast lest it should embroil them
with the other European powers.*

(*Footnote. The design of settling a factory at this period in the
dominions of Achin was occasioned by the recent loss of our establishment
at Bantam, which had been originally fixed by Sir James Lancaster in
1603. The circumstances of this event were as follows. The old sultan had
thought proper to share the regal power with his son in the year 1677,
and this measure was attended with the obvious effect of a jealousy
between the parent and child, which soon broke forth into open
hostilities. The policy of the Dutch led them to take an active part in
favour of the young sultan, who had inclined most to their interests and
now solicited their aid. The English on the other hand discouraged what
appeared to them an unnatural rebellion, but without interfering, as they
said, in any other character than that of mediators, or affording
military assistance to either party; and which their extreme weakness
rather than their assertions renders probable. On the twenty-eighth of
March 1682 the Dutch landed a considerable force from Batavia, and soon
terminated the war. They placed the young sultan on the throne,
delivering the father into his custody, and obtained from him in return
for these favours an exclusive privilege of trade in his territories;
which was evidently the sole object they had in view. On the first day of
April possession was taken of the English factory by a party of Dutch and
country soldiers, and on the twelfth the agent and council were obliged
to embark with their property on vessels provided for the purpose, which
carried them to Batavia. From thence they proceeded to Surat on the
twenty-second of August in the following year.

