His daily amusements were in the grounds allotted for the royal sports.
He was attended by a hundred young men, who were obliged to be constantly
near his person day and night, and who were clothed in a sumptuous manner
at a monthly expense of a hundred dollars for each man. The government of
the different parts of the country was divided, under his authority,
amongst the nobles. When a district appeared to be disturbed he took
measures for quelling the insurrection; those who resisted his orders he
caused to be apprehended; when the roads were bad he gave directions for
their repair. Such was his conduct in the government. His subjects all
feared him, and none dared to condemn his actions. At that time the
country was in peace.

When he had been a few years on the throne a country lying to the
eastward, named Batu Bara, attempted to throw off its subjection to
Achin. The chiefs were ordered to repair to court to answer for their
conduct, but they refused to obey. These proceedings raised the king's
indignation. He assembled the nobles and required of them that each
should furnish a vessel of war, to be employed on an expedition against
that place, and within two months, thirty large galleys, without counting
vessels of a smaller size, were built and equipped for sea. When the
fleet arrived off Batu Bara (by which must be understood the Malayan
district at the mouth of the river, and not the Batta territory through
which it takes its course), a letter was sent on shore addressed to the
refractory chiefs, summoning them to give proof of their allegiance by
appearing in the king's presence, or threatening the alternative of an
immediate attack. After much division in their councils it was at length
agreed to feign submission, and a deputation was sent off to the royal
fleet, carrying presents of fruit and provisions of all kinds. One of the
chiefs carried, as his complimentary offering, some fresh coconuts, of
the delicate species called kalapa-gading, into which a drug had been
secretly introduced. The king observing these directed that one should be
cut open for him, and having drunk of the juice, became affected with a
giddiness in his head. (This symptom shows the poison to have been the
upas, but too much diluted in the liquor of the nut to produce death).
Being inclined to repose, the strangers were ordered to return on shore,
and, finding his indisposition augment, he gave directions for being
conveyed back to Achin, whither his ship sailed next day. The remainder
of the fleet continued off the coast during five or six days longer, and
then returned likewise without effecting the reduction of the place,
which the chiefs had lost no time in fortifying.

