1755.

Panglima Muda Seti, being considered as the head of the league, came down
with twenty thousand followers, and, upon the king's refusing to admit
into the castle his complimentary present (considering it only as the
prelude to humiliating negotiation), another war commenced that lasted
for two years, and was at length terminated by Muda Seti's withdrawing
from the contest and returning to his province. About five years after
this event Juhan shah died, and his son, Pochat-bangta, succeeded him,
but not (says this writer, who here concludes his abstract) with the
general concurrence of the chiefs, and the country long continued in a
disturbed state.

END OF NARRATIVE.

1760.

The death of Juhan shah is stated in the Annals to have taken place in
August 1760, and the accession of the son, who took the name of Ala-eddin
Muhammed shah, not until November of the same year. Other authorities
place these events in 1761.

1763.

Before he had completed the third year of his reign an insurrection of
his subjects obliged him to save himself by flight on board a ship in the
road. This happened in 1763 or 1764. The throne was seized by the
maharaja (first officer of state) named Sinara, who assumed the title of
Beder-eddin Juhan shah, and about the end of 1765 was put to death by the
adherents of the fugitive monarch, Muhammed shah, who thereupon returned
to the throne.*

(*Footnote. Captain Forrest acquaints us that he visited the court of
Mahomed Selim (the latter name is not given to this prince by any other
writer) in the year 1764, at which time he appeared to be about forty
years of age. It is difficult to reconcile this date with the recorded
events of this unfortunate reign, and I have doubts whether it was not
the usurper whom the Captain saw.)

He was exposed however to further revolutions. About six years after his
restoration the palace was attacked in the night by a desperate band of
two hundred men, headed by a man called Raja Udah, and he was once more
obliged to make a precipitate retreat. This usurper took the title of
sultan Suliman shah, but after a short reign of three months was driven
out in his turn and forced to fly for refuge to one of the islands in the
eastern sea. The nature of his pretensions, if he had any, have not been
stated, but he never gave any further trouble. From this period Muhammed
maintained possession of his capital, although it was generally in a
state of confusion.

