1772.

"In the year 1772," says Captain Forrest, "Mr. Giles Holloway, resident
of Tappanooly, was sent to Achin by the Bencoolen government, with a
letter and present, to ask leave from the king to make a settlement
there. I carried him from his residency. Not being very well on my
arrival, I did not accompany Mr. Holloway (a very sensible and discreet
gentleman, and who spoke the Malay tongue very fluently) on shore at his
first audience; and finding his commission likely to prove abortive I did
not go to the palace at all. There was great anarchy and confusion at
this time; and the malcontents came often, as I was informed, near the
king's palace at night."

1775.

The Captain further remarks that when again there in 1775 he could not
obtain an audience.

1781.

The Annals report his death to have happened on the 2nd of June 1781, and
observe that from the commencement to the close of his reign the country
never enjoyed repose. His brother, named Ala-eddin (or Uleddin, as
commonly pronounced, and which seems to have been a favourite title with
the Achinese princes), was in exile at Madras during a considerable
period, and resided also for some time at Bencoolen.

The eldest son of the deceased king, then about eighteen years of age,
succeeded him on the 16th of the same month, by the title of Ala-eddin
Mahmud shah Juhan, in spite of an opposition attempted to be raised by
the partisans of another son by a favourite wife. Weapons had been drawn
in the court before the palace, when the tuanku agung or high priest, a
person of great respectability and influence, by whom the former had been
educated, came amidst the crowd, bareheaded and without attendance,
leading his pupil by the hand. Having placed himself between the
contending factions, he addressed them to the following effect: that the
prince who stood before them had a natural right and legal claim to the
throne of his father; that he had been educated with a view to it, and
was qualified to adorn it by his disposition and talents; that he wished
however to found his pretensions neither upon his birthright nor the
strength of the party attached to him, but upon the general voice of his
subjects calling him to the sovereignty; that if such was their sentiment
he was ready to undertake the arduous duties of the station, in which he
himself would assist him with the fruits of his experience; that if on
the contrary they felt a predilection for his rival, no blood should be
shed on his account, the prince and his tutor being resolved in that case
to yield the point without a struggle, and retire to some distant island.
This impressive appeal had the desired effect, and the young prince was
invited by unanimous acclamation to assume the reins of government.*

