(*Footnote. Mr. Philip Braham, late chief of the East India Company's
settlement of Fort Marlborough, by whom the circumstances of this event
were related to me, arrived at Achin in July 1781, about a fortnight
after the transaction. He thus described his audience. The king was
seated in a gallery (to which there were no visible steps), at the
extremity of a spacious hall or court, and a curtain which hung before
him was drawn aside when it was his pleasure to appear. In this court
were great numbers of female attendants, but not armed, as they have been
described. Mr. Braham was introduced through a long file of guards armed
with blunderbusses, and then seated on a carpet in front of the gallery.
When a conversation had been carried on for some time through the
Shabandar, who communicated his answers to an interpreter, by whom they
were reported to the king, the latter perceiving that he spoke the
Malayan language addressed him directly, and asked several questions
respecting England; what number of wives and children our sovereign had;
how many ships of war the English kept in India; what was the French
force, and others of that nature. He expressed himself in friendly terms
with regard to our nation, and said he should always be happy to
countenance our traders in his ports. Even at this early period of his
reign he had abolished some vexatious imposts. Mr. Braham had an
opportunity of learning the great degree of power and control possessed
by certain of the orang kayas, who held their respective districts in
actual sovereignty, and kept the city in awe by stopping, when it suited
their purpose, the supplies of provisions. Captain Forrest, who once more
visited Achin in 1784 and was treated with much distinction (see his
Voyage to the Mergui Archipelago page 51), says he appeared to be
twenty-five years of age; but this was a misconception. Mr. Kenneth
Mackenzie, who saw him in 1782, judged him to have been at that time no
more than nineteen or twenty, which corresponds with Mr. Braham's
statement.)

