
CHAPTER 23.

BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE ISLANDS LYING OFF THE WESTERN COAST OF SUMATRA.

ISLANDS ADJACENT TO SUMATRA.

The chain of islands which extends itself in a line nearly parallel to
the western coast, at the distance from it of little more than a degree,
being immediately connected with the principal subject of this work, and
being themselves inhabited by a race or races of people apparently from
the same original stock as those of the interior of Sumatra, whose
genuineness of character has been preserved to a remarkable degree
(whilst the islands on the eastern side are uniformly peopled with
Malays), I have thought it expedient to add such authentic information
respecting them as I have been enabled to obtain; and this I feel to be
the more necessary from observing in the maps to which I have had
recourse so much error and confusion in applying the names that the
identity and even the existence of some of them have been considered as
doubtful.

ENGANO.

Of these islands the most southern is Engano, which is still but very
imperfectly known, all attempts to open a friendly communication with the
natives having hitherto proved fruitless; and in truth they have had but
too much reason to consider strangers attempting to land on their coast
as piratical enemies. In the voyage of J.J. Saar, published in 1662, we
have an account of an expedition fitted out from Batavia in 1645 for the
purpose of examining this island, which terminated in entrapping and
carrying off with them sixty or seventy of the inhabitants, male and
female. The former died soon after their arrival, refusing to eat any
other food than coconuts, but the women, who were distributed amongst the
principal families of Batavia, proved extremely tractable and docile, and
acquired the language of the place. It is not stated, nor does it appear
from any subsequent publication, that the opportunity was taken of
forming a collection of their words.

From that period Engano had only been incidentally noticed, until in
March 1771 Mr. Richard Wyatt, then governor, and the council of Fort
Marlborough, sent Mr. Charles Miller in a vessel belonging to the Company
to explore the productions of this island. On approaching it he observed
large plantations of coconut-trees, with several spots of ground cleared
for cultivation on the hills, and at night many fires on the beach.
Landing was found to be in most parts extremely difficult on account of
the surf. Many of the natives were seen armed with lances and squatting
down amongst the coral rocks, as if to conceal their numbers. Upon rowing
into a bay with the ship's boat it was pursued by ten canoes full of men
and obliged to return. Mr. Whalfeldt, the surveyor, and the second mate
proceeded to make a survey of the bay and endeavour to speak with the
natives. They were furnished with articles for presents, and, upon seeing
a canoe on the beach of a small island, and several people fishing on the
rocks, they rowed to the island and sent two caffrees on shore with some
cloth, but the natives would not come near them. The mate then landed and
advanced towards them, when they immediately came to him. He distributed
some presents among them, and they in return gave him some fish. Several
canoes came off to the ship with coconuts, sugar-cane, toddy, and a
species of yam. The crew of one of them took an opportunity of unshipping
and carrying away the boat's rudder, and upon a musket being fired over
their heads many of them leaped into the sea.

