The next island to the north-west of Engano, but at a considerable
distance, is called by the Malays Pulo Mega (cloud-island), and by
Europeans Triste, or isle de Recif. It is small and uninhabited, and like
many others in these seas is nearly surrounded by a coral reef with a
lagoon in the centre. Coconut-trees grow in vast numbers in the sand near
the sea-shore, whose fruit serves for food to rats and squirrels, the
only quadrupeds found there. On the borders of the lagoon is a little
vegetable mould, just above the level of high water, where grow some
species of timber-trees.

PULO SANDING.

The name of Pulo Sanding or Sandiang belongs to two small islands
situated near the south-eastern extremity of the Nassau or Pagi islands,
in which group they are sometimes included. Of these the southernmost is
distinguished in the Dutch charts by the term of Laag or low, and the
other by that of Bergen or hilly. They are both uninhabited, and the only
productions worth notice is the long nutmeg, which grows wild on them,
and some good timber, particularly of the kind known by the name of
marbau (Metrosideros amboinensis). An idea was entertained of making a
settlement on one of them, and in 1769 an officer with a few men were
stationed there for some months, during which period the rains were
incessant. The scheme was afterwards abandoned as unlikely to answer any
useful purpose.

NASSAUS OR PULO PAGI.

The two islands separated by a narrow strait, to which the Dutch
navigators have given the name of the Nassaus, are called by the Malays
Pulo Pagi or Pagei, and by us commonly the Poggies. The race of people by
whom these as well as some other islands to the northward of them are
inhabited having the appellation of orang mantawei, this has been
confounded with the proper names of the islands, and, being applied
sometimes to one and sometimes to another, has occasioned much confusion
and uncertainty. The earliest accounts we have of them are the reports of
Mr. Randolph Marriot in 1749, and of Mr. John Saul in 1750 and 1751, with
Captain Thomas Forrest's observations in 1757, preserved in Mr.
Dalrymple's Historical Relation of the several Expeditions from Fort
Marlborough to the Islands adjacent to the West-coast of Sumatra; but by
much the most satisfactory information is contained in a paper
communicated by Mr. John Crisp to the Asiatic Society of Bengal, in the
sixth volume of whose Transactions it is published, and from these
documents I shall extract such particulars as may best serve to convey a
knowledge of the country and the people.

