Mr. Crisp sailed from Fort Marlborough on the 12th of August 1792 in a
vessel navigated at his own expense, and with no other view than that of
gratifying a liberal curiosity. On the 14th he anchored in the straits of
See Cockup (Si Kakap), which divide the Northern from the Southern Pagi.
These straits are about two miles in length and a quarter of a mile over,
and make safe riding for ships of any size, which lie perfectly secure
from every wind, the water being literally as smooth as in a pond. The
high land of Sumatra (inland of Moco-moco and Ipu) was plainly to be
distinguished from thence. In the passage are scattered several small
islands, each of which consists of one immense rock, and which may have
been originally connected with the main island. The face of the country
is rough and irregular, consisting of high hills of sudden and steep
ascent, and covered with trees to their summits, among which the species
called bintangur or puhn, fit for the largest masts, abounds. The
sago-tree grows in plenty, and constitutes the chief article of food to
the inhabitants, who do not cultivate rice. The use of betel is unknown
to them. Coconut-trees, bamboos, and the common fruits of Sumatra are
found here. The woods are impervious to man: the species of wild animals
that inhabit them but few; the large red deer, hogs, and several kinds of
monkey, but neither buffaloes nor goats; nor are they infested with
tigers or other beasts of prey; They have the common domestic fowl, but
pork and fish are the favourite animal food of the natives.

When the vessel had been two days at anchor they began to come down from
their villages in their canoes, bringing fruit of various kinds, and on
invitation they readily came on board without showing signs of
apprehension or embarrassment. On presenting to them plates of boiled
rice they would not touch it until it had been previously tasted by one
of the ship's company. They behaved whilst on board with much decorum,
showed a strong degree of curiosity, but not the least disposition for
pilfering. They appeared to live in great friendship and harmony with
each other, and voluntarily divided amongst their companions what was
given to them. Their stature seldom exceeds five feet and a half. Their
colour is like that of the Malays, a light brown or copper-colour. Some
canoes came alongside the vessel with only women in them, and upon being
encouraged by the men several ventured on board. When on the water they
use a temporary dress to shield them from the heat of the sun, made of
the leaves of the plantain, of which they form a sort of conical cap (the
same was observed of the women of Engano), and there is also a broad
piece of the leaf fastened round the body over their breasts, and another
round their waist. This leaf readily splits, and has the appearance of a
coarse fringe. When in their villages the women, like the men, wear only
a small piece of coarse cloth, made of the bark of a tree, round their
middle. Beads and other ornaments are worn about the neck. Although
coconuts are in such plenty they have not the use of oil, and their hair,
which is black, and naturally long, is, for want of it and the use of
combs, in general matted and full of vermin. They have a method of filing
or grinding their teeth to a point, like the people of Sumatra.

