“You ought to venerate the memory of Baron Stott-Wartenheim,” he
exclaimed suddenly.

The lowered physiognomy of Mr Verloc expressed a sombre and weary
annoyance.

“Permit me to observe to you,” he said, “that I came here because I was
summoned by a peremptory letter.  I have been here only twice before in
the last eleven years, and certainly never at eleven in the morning.  It
isn’t very wise to call me up like this.  There is just a chance of being
seen.  And that would be no joke for me.”

Mr Vladimir shrugged his shoulders.

“It would destroy my usefulness,” continued the other hotly.

“That’s your affair,” murmured Mr Vladimir, with soft brutality.  “When
you cease to be useful you shall cease to be employed.  Yes.  Right off.
Cut short.  You shall—” Mr Vladimir, frowning, paused, at a loss for a
sufficiently idiomatic expression, and instantly brightened up, with a
grin of beautifully white teeth.  “You shall be chucked,” he brought out
ferociously.

Once more Mr Verloc had to react with all the force of his will against
that sensation of faintness running down one’s legs which once upon a
time had inspired some poor devil with the felicitous expression: “My
heart went down into my boots.”  Mr Verloc, aware of the sensation,
raised his head bravely.

Mr Vladimir bore the look of heavy inquiry with perfect serenity.

“What we want is to administer a tonic to the Conference in Milan,” he
said airily.  “Its deliberations upon international action for the
suppression of political crime don’t seem to get anywhere.  England lags.
This country is absurd with its sentimental regard for individual
liberty.  It’s intolerable to think that all your friends have got only
to come over to—”

“In that way I have them all under my eye,” Mr Verloc interrupted
huskily.

“It would be much more to the point to have them all under lock and key.
England must be brought into line.  The imbecile bourgeoisie of this
country make themselves the accomplices of the very people whose aim is
to drive them out of their houses to starve in ditches.  And they have
the political power still, if they only had the sense to use it for their
preservation.  I suppose you agree that the middle classes are stupid?”

