“Lombroso is an ass.”

Comrade Ossipon met the shock of this blasphemy by an awful, vacant
stare.  And the other, his extinguished eyes without gleams blackening
the deep shadows under the great, bony forehead, mumbled, catching the
tip of his tongue between his lips at every second word as though he were
chewing it angrily:

“Did you ever see such an idiot?  For him the criminal is the prisoner.
Simple, is it not?  What about those who shut him up there—forced him in
there?  Exactly.  Forced him in there.  And what is crime?  Does he know
that, this imbecile who has made his way in this world of gorged fools by
looking at the ears and teeth of a lot of poor, luckless devils?  Teeth
and ears mark the criminal?  Do they?  And what about the law that marks
him still better—the pretty branding instrument invented by the overfed
to protect themselves against the hungry?  Red-hot applications on their
vile skins—hey?  Can’t you smell and hear from here the thick hide of the
people burn and sizzle?  That’s how criminals are made for your Lombrosos
to write their silly stuff about.”

The knob of his stick and his legs shook together with passion, whilst
the trunk, draped in the wings of the havelock, preserved his historic
attitude of defiance.  He seemed to sniff the tainted air of social
cruelty, to strain his ear for its atrocious sounds.  There was an
extraordinary force of suggestion in this posturing.  The all but
moribund veteran of dynamite wars had been a great actor in his
time—actor on platforms, in secret assemblies, in private interviews.
The famous terrorist had never in his life raised personally as much as
his little finger against the social edifice.  He was no man of action;
he was not even an orator of torrential eloquence, sweeping the masses
along in the rushing noise and foam of a great enthusiasm.  With a more
subtle intention, he took the part of an insolent and venomous evoker of
sinister impulses which lurk in the blind envy and exasperated vanity of
ignorance, in the suffering and misery of poverty, in all the hopeful and
noble illusions of righteous anger, pity, and revolt.  The shadow of his
evil gift clung to him yet like the smell of a deadly drug in an old vial
of poison, emptied now, useless, ready to be thrown away upon the
rubbish-heap of things that had served their time.

