“They know,” interrupted the little man crisply, leaning against the
straight chair back, which rose higher than his fragile head.  “I shall
never be arrested.  The game isn’t good enough for any policeman of them
all.  To deal with a man like me you require sheer, naked, inglorious
heroism.”  Again his lips closed with a self-confident snap.  Ossipon
repressed a movement of impatience.

“Or recklessness—or simply ignorance,” he retorted.  “They’ve only to get
somebody for the job who does not know you carry enough stuff in your
pocket to blow yourself and everything within sixty yards of you to
pieces.”

“I never affirmed I could not be eliminated,” rejoined the other.  “But
that wouldn’t be an arrest.  Moreover, it’s not so easy as it looks.”

“Bah!” Ossipon contradicted.  “Don’t be too sure of that.  What’s to
prevent half-a-dozen of them jumping upon you from behind in the street?
With your arms pinned to your sides you could do nothing—could you?”

“Yes; I could.  I am seldom out in the streets after dark,” said the
little man impassively, “and never very late.  I walk always with my
right hand closed round the india-rubber ball which I have in my trouser
pocket.  The pressing of this ball actuates a detonator inside the flask
I carry in my pocket.  It’s the principle of the pneumatic instantaneous
shutter for a camera lens.  The tube leads up—”

With a swift disclosing gesture he gave Ossipon a glimpse of an
india-rubber tube, resembling a slender brown worm, issuing from the
armhole of his waistcoat and plunging into the inner breast pocket of his
jacket.  His clothes, of a nondescript brown mixture, were threadbare and
marked with stains, dusty in the folds, with ragged button-holes.  “The
detonator is partly mechanical, partly chemical,” he explained, with
casual condescension.

“It is instantaneous, of course?” murmured Ossipon, with a slight
shudder.

“Far from it,” confessed the other, with a reluctance which seemed to
twist his mouth dolorously.  “A full twenty seconds must elapse from the
moment I press the ball till the explosion takes place.”

