“Yes.  Your detonators.  I shouldn’t wonder if it weren’t one of your
detonators that made a clean sweep of the man in the park.”

A shade of vexation darkened the determined sallow face confronting
Ossipon.

“My difficulty consists precisely in experimenting practically with the
various kinds.  They must be tried after all.  Besides—”

Ossipon interrupted.

“Who could that fellow be?  I assure you that we in London had no
knowledge—Couldn’t you describe the person you gave the stuff to?”

The other turned his spectacles upon Ossipon like a pair of searchlights.

“Describe him,” he repeated slowly.  “I don’t think there can be the
slightest objection now.  I will describe him to you in one word—Verloc.”

Ossipon, whom curiosity had lifted a few inches off his seat, dropped
back, as if hit in the face.

“Verloc!  Impossible.”

The self-possessed little man nodded slightly once.

“Yes.  He’s the person.  You can’t say that in this case I was giving my
stuff to the first fool that came along.  He was a prominent member of
the group as far as I understand.”

“Yes,” said Ossipon.  “Prominent.  No, not exactly.  He was the centre
for general intelligence, and usually received comrades coming over here.
More useful than important.  Man of no ideas.  Years ago he used to speak
at meetings—in France, I believe.  Not very well, though.  He was trusted
by such men as Latorre, Moser and all that old lot.  The only talent he
showed really was his ability to elude the attentions of the police
somehow.  Here, for instance, he did not seem to be looked after very
closely.  He was regularly married, you know.  I suppose it’s with her
money that he started that shop.  Seemed to make it pay, too.”

Ossipon paused abruptly, muttered to himself “I wonder what that woman
will do now?” and fell into thought.

The other waited with ostentatious indifference.  His parentage was
obscure, and he was generally known only by his nickname of Professor.
His title to that designation consisted in his having been once assistant
demonstrator in chemistry at some technical institute.  He quarrelled
with the authorities upon a question of unfair treatment.  Afterwards he
obtained a post in the laboratory of a manufactory of dyes.  There too he
had been treated with revolting injustice.  His struggles, his
privations, his hard work to raise himself in the social scale, had
filled him with such an exalted conviction of his merits that it was
extremely difficult for the world to treat him with justice—the standard
of that notion depending so much upon the patience of the individual.
The Professor had genius, but lacked the great social virtue of
resignation.

