“There isn’t one of them, sir, that we couldn’t lay our hands on at any
time of night and day.  We know what each of them is doing hour by hour,”
he had declared.  And the high official had deigned to smile.  This was
so obviously the right thing to say for an officer of Chief Inspector
Heat’s reputation that it was perfectly delightful.  The high official
believed the declaration, which chimed in with his idea of the fitness of
things.  His wisdom was of an official kind, or else he might have
reflected upon a matter not of theory but of experience that in the
close-woven stuff of relations between conspirator and police there occur
unexpected solutions of continuity, sudden holes in space and time.  A
given anarchist may be watched inch by inch and minute by minute, but a
moment always comes when somehow all sight and touch of him are lost for
a few hours, during which something (generally an explosion) more or less
deplorable does happen.  But the high official, carried away by his sense
of the fitness of things, had smiled, and now the recollection of that
smile was very annoying to Chief Inspector Heat, principal expert in
anarchist procedure.

This was not the only circumstance whose recollection depressed the usual
serenity of the eminent specialist.  There was another dating back only
to that very morning.  The thought that when called urgently to his
Assistant Commissioner’s private room he had been unable to conceal his
astonishment was distinctly vexing.  His instinct of a successful man had
taught him long ago that, as a general rule, a reputation is built on
manner as much as on achievement.  And he felt that his manner when
confronted with the telegram had not been impressive.  He had opened his
eyes widely, and had exclaimed “Impossible!” exposing himself thereby to
the unanswerable retort of a finger-tip laid forcibly on the telegram
which the Assistant Commissioner, after reading it aloud, had flung on
the desk.  To be crushed, as it were, under the tip of a forefinger was
an unpleasant experience.  Very damaging, too!  Furthermore, Chief
Inspector Heat was conscious of not having mended matters by allowing
himself to express a conviction.

