After paying this tribute to what is normal in the constitution of
society (for the idea of thieving appeared to his instinct as normal as
the idea of property), Chief Inspector Heat felt very angry with himself
for having stopped, for having spoken, for having taken that way at all
on the ground of it being a short cut from the station to the
headquarters.  And he spoke again in his big authoritative voice, which,
being moderated, had a threatening character.

“You are not wanted, I tell you,” he repeated.

The anarchist did not stir.  An inward laugh of derision uncovered not
only his teeth but his gums as well, shook him all over, without the
slightest sound.  Chief Inspector Heat was led to add, against his better
judgment:

“Not yet.  When I want you I will know where to find you.”

Those were perfectly proper words, within the tradition and suitable to
his character of a police officer addressing one of his special flock.
But the reception they got departed from tradition and propriety.  It was
outrageous.  The stunted, weakly figure before him spoke at last.

“I’ve no doubt the papers would give you an obituary notice then.  You
know best what that would be worth to you.  I should think you can
imagine easily the sort of stuff that would be printed.  But you may be
exposed to the unpleasantness of being buried together with me, though I
suppose your friends would make an effort to sort us out as much as
possible.”

With all his healthy contempt for the spirit dictating such speeches, the
atrocious allusiveness of the words had its effect on Chief Inspector
Heat.  He had too much insight, and too much exact information as well,
to dismiss them as rot.  The dusk of this narrow lane took on a sinister
tint from the dark, frail little figure, its back to the wall, and
speaking with a weak, self-confident voice.  To the vigorous, tenacious
vitality of the Chief Inspector, the physical wretchedness of that being,
so obviously not fit to live, was ominous; for it seemed to him that if
he had the misfortune to be such a miserable object he would not have
cared how soon he died.  Life had such a strong hold upon him that a
fresh wave of nausea broke out in slight perspiration upon his brow.  The
murmur of town life, the subdued rumble of wheels in the two invisible
streets to the right and left, came through the curve of the sordid lane
to his ears with a precious familiarity and an appealing sweetness.  He
was human.  But Chief Inspector Heat was also a man, and he could not let
such words pass.

