“All this is good to frighten children with,” he said.  “I’ll have you
yet.”

It was very well said, without scorn, with an almost austere quietness.

“Doubtless,” was the answer; “but there’s no time like the present,
believe me.  For a man of real convictions this is a fine opportunity of
self-sacrifice.  You may not find another so favourable, so humane.
There isn’t even a cat near us, and these condemned old houses would make
a good heap of bricks where you stand.  You’ll never get me at so little
cost to life and property, which you are paid to protect.”

“You don’t know who you’re speaking to,” said Chief Inspector Heat
firmly.  “If I were to lay my hands on you now I would be no better than
yourself.”

“Ah!  The game!’

“You may be sure our side will win in the end.  It may yet be necessary
to make people believe that some of you ought to be shot at sight like
mad dogs.  Then that will be the game.  But I’ll be damned if I know what
yours is.  I don’t believe you know yourselves.  You’ll never get
anything by it.”

“Meantime it’s you who get something from it—so far.  And you get it
easily, too.  I won’t speak of your salary, but haven’t you made your
name simply by not understanding what we are after?”

“What are you after, then?” asked Chief Inspector Heat, with scornful
haste, like a man in a hurry who perceives he is wasting his time.

The perfect anarchist answered by a smile which did not part his thin
colourless lips; and the celebrated Chief Inspector felt a sense of
superiority which induced him to raise a warning finger.

“Give it up—whatever it is,” he said in an admonishing tone, but not so
kindly as if he were condescending to give good advice to a cracksman of
repute.  “Give it up.  You’ll find we are too many for you.”

The fixed smile on the Professor’s lips wavered, as if the mocking spirit
within had lost its assurance.  Chief Inspector Heat went on:

“Don’t you believe me eh?  Well, you’ve only got to look about you.  We
are.  And anyway, you’re not doing it well.  You’re always making a mess
of it.  Why, if the thieves didn’t know their work better they would
starve.”

