He got up, unfolding himself to his full height, and with a heaviness of
step remarkable in so slender a man, moved across the room to the window.
The panes streamed with rain, and the short street he looked down into
lay wet and empty, as if swept clear suddenly by a great flood.  It was a
very trying day, choked in raw fog to begin with, and now drowned in cold
rain.  The flickering, blurred flames of gas-lamps seemed to be
dissolving in a watery atmosphere.  And the lofty pretensions of a
mankind oppressed by the miserable indignities of the weather appeared as
a colossal and hopeless vanity deserving of scorn, wonder, and
compassion.

“Horrible, horrible!” thought the Assistant Commissioner to himself, with
his face near the window-pane.  “We have been having this sort of thing
now for ten days; no, a fortnight—a fortnight.”  He ceased to think
completely for a time.  That utter stillness of his brain lasted about
three seconds.  Then he said perfunctorily: “You have set inquiries on
foot for tracing that other man up and down the line?”

He had no doubt that everything needful had been done.  Chief Inspector
Heat knew, of course, thoroughly the business of man-hunting.  And these
were the routine steps, too, that would be taken as a matter of course by
the merest beginner.  A few inquiries amongst the ticket collectors and
the porters of the two small railway stations would give additional
details as to the appearance of the two men; the inspection of the
collected tickets would show at once where they came from that morning.
It was elementary, and could not have been neglected.  Accordingly the
Chief Inspector answered that all this had been done directly the old
woman had come forward with her deposition.  And he mentioned the name of
a station.  “That’s where they came from, sir,” he went on.  “The porter
who took the tickets at Maze Hill remembers two chaps answering to the
description passing the barrier.  They seemed to him two respectable
working men of a superior sort—sign painters or house decorators.  The
big man got out of a third-class compartment backward, with a bright tin
can in his hand.  On the platform he gave it to carry to the fair young
fellow who followed him.  All this agrees exactly with what the old woman
told the police sergeant in Greenwich.”

