The lady of the house, gazing absently at the Assistant Commissioner,
left alone with her on the private side of the screen, seemed to be
rearranging her mental impressions behind her thoughtful immobility of a
handsome old face.  Men with grey moustaches and full, healthy, vaguely
smiling countenances approached, circling round the screen; two mature
women with a matronly air of gracious resolution; a clean-shaved
individual with sunken cheeks, and dangling a gold-mounted eyeglass on a
broad black ribbon with an old-world, dandified effect.  A silence
deferential, but full of reserves, reigned for a moment, and then the
great lady exclaimed, not with resentment, but with a sort of protesting
indignation:

“And that officially is supposed to be a revolutionist!  What nonsense.”
She looked hard at the Assistant Commissioner, who murmured
apologetically:

“Not a dangerous one perhaps.”

“Not dangerous—I should think not indeed.  He is a mere believer.  It’s
the temperament of a saint,” declared the great lady in a firm tone.
“And they kept him shut up for twenty years.  One shudders at the
stupidity of it.  And now they have let him out everybody belonging to
him is gone away somewhere or dead.  His parents are dead; the girl he
was to marry has died while he was in prison; he has lost the skill
necessary for his manual occupation.  He told me all this himself with
the sweetest patience; but then, he said, he had had plenty of time to
think out things for himself.  A pretty compensation!  If that’s the
stuff revolutionists are made of some of us may well go on their knees to
them,” she continued in a slightly bantering voice, while the banal
society smiles hardened on the worldly faces turned towards her with
conventional deference.  “The poor creature is obviously no longer in a
position to take care of himself.  Somebody will have to look after him a
little.”

“He should be recommended to follow a treatment of some sort,” the
soldierly voice of the active-looking man was heard advising earnestly
from a distance.  He was in the pink of condition for his age, and even
the texture of his long frock coat had a character of elastic soundness,
as if it were a living tissue.  “The man is virtually a cripple,” he
added with unmistakable feeling.

