The perfect anarchist was not recognised as a fellow-creature by Chief
Inspector Heat.  He was impossible—a mad dog to be left alone.  Not that
the Chief Inspector was afraid of him; on the contrary, he meant to have
him some day.  But not yet; he meant to get hold of him in his own time,
properly and effectively according to the rules of the game.  The present
was not the right time for attempting that feat, not the right time for
many reasons, personal and of public service.  This being the strong
feeling of Inspector Heat, it appeared to him just and proper that this
affair should be shunted off its obscure and inconvenient track, leading
goodness knows where, into a quiet (and lawful) siding called Michaelis.
And he repeated, as if reconsidering the suggestion conscientiously:

“The bomb.  No, I would not say that exactly.  We may never find that
out.  But it’s clear that he is connected with this in some way, which we
can find out without much trouble.”

His countenance had that look of grave, overbearing indifference once
well known and much dreaded by the better sort of thieves.  Chief
Inspector Heat, though what is called a man, was not a smiling animal.
But his inward state was that of satisfaction at the passively receptive
attitude of the Assistant Commissioner, who murmured gently:

“And you really think that the investigation should be made in that
direction?”

“I do, sir.”

“Quite convinced?

“I am, sir.  That’s the true line for us to take.”

The Assistant Commissioner withdrew the support of his hand from his
reclining head with a suddenness that, considering his languid attitude,
seemed to menace his whole person with collapse.  But, on the contrary,
he sat up, extremely alert, behind the great writing-table on which his
hand had fallen with the sound of a sharp blow.

“What I want to know is what put it out of your head till now.”

“Put it out of my head,” repeated the Chief Inspector very slowly.

“Yes.  Till you were called into this room—you know.”

