The Chief Inspector felt as if the air between his clothing and his skin
had become unpleasantly hot.  It was the sensation of an unprecedented
and incredible experience.

“Of course,” he said, exaggerating the deliberation of his utterance to
the utmost limits of possibility, “if there is a reason, of which I know
nothing, for not interfering with the convict Michaelis, perhaps it’s
just as well I didn’t start the county police after him.”

This took such a long time to say that the unflagging attention of the
Assistant Commissioner seemed a wonderful feat of endurance.  His retort
came without delay.

“No reason whatever that I know of.  Come, Chief Inspector, this
finessing with me is highly improper on your part—highly improper.  And
it’s also unfair, you know.  You shouldn’t leave me to puzzle things out
for myself like this.  Really, I am surprised.”

He paused, then added smoothly: “I need scarcely tell you that this
conversation is altogether unofficial.”

These words were far from pacifying the Chief Inspector.  The indignation
of a betrayed tight-rope performer was strong within him.  In his pride
of a trusted servant he was affected by the assurance that the rope was
not shaken for the purpose of breaking his neck, as by an exhibition of
impudence.  As if anybody were afraid!  Assistant Commissioners come and
go, but a valuable Chief Inspector is not an ephemeral office phenomenon.
He was not afraid of getting a broken neck.  To have his performance
spoiled was more than enough to account for the glow of honest
indignation.  And as thought is no respecter of persons, the thought of
Chief Inspector Heat took a threatening and prophetic shape.  “You, my
boy,” he said to himself, keeping his round and habitually roving eyes
fastened upon the Assistant Commissioner’s face—“you, my boy, you don’t
know your place, and your place won’t know you very long either, I bet.”

As if in provoking answer to that thought, something like the ghost of an
amiable smile passed on the lips of the Assistant Commissioner.  His
manner was easy and business-like while he persisted in administering
another shake to the tight rope.

