“Let us come now to what you have discovered on the spot, Chief
Inspector,” he said.

“A fool and his job are soon parted,” went on the train of prophetic
thought in Chief Inspector Heat’s head.  But it was immediately followed
by the reflection that a higher official, even when “fired out” (this was
the precise image), has still the time as he flies through the door to
launch a nasty kick at the shin-bones of a subordinate.  Without
softening very much the basilisk nature of his stare, he said
impassively:

“We are coming to that part of my investigation, sir.”

“That’s right.  Well, what have you brought away from it?”

The Chief Inspector, who had made up his mind to jump off the rope, came
to the ground with gloomy frankness.

“I’ve brought away an address,” he said, pulling out of his pocket
without haste a singed rag of dark blue cloth.  “This belongs to the
overcoat the fellow who got himself blown to pieces was wearing.  Of
course, the overcoat may not have been his, and may even have been
stolen.  But that’s not at all probable if you look at this.”

The Chief Inspector, stepping up to the table, smoothed out carefully the
rag of blue cloth.  He had picked it up from the repulsive heap in the
mortuary, because a tailor’s name is found sometimes under the collar.
It is not often of much use, but still—He only half expected to find
anything useful, but certainly he did not expect to find—not under the
collar at all, but stitched carefully on the under side of the lapel—a
square piece of calico with an address written on it in marking ink.

The Chief Inspector removed his smoothing hand.

“I carried it off with me without anybody taking notice,” he said.  “I
thought it best.  It can always be produced if required.”

The Assistant Commissioner, rising a little in his chair, pulled the
cloth over to his side of the table.  He sat looking at it in silence.
Only the number 32 and the name of Brett Street were written in marking
ink on a piece of calico slightly larger than an ordinary cigarette
paper.  He was genuinely surprised.

