“Some time later, a month or so after my promotion to Chief Inspector, my
attention was attracted to a big burly man, I thought I had seen
somewhere before, coming out in a hurry from a jeweller’s shop in the
Strand.  I went after him, as it was on my way towards Charing Cross, and
there seeing one of our detectives across the road, I beckoned him over,
and pointed out the fellow to him, with instructions to watch his
movements for a couple of days, and then report to me.  No later than
next afternoon my man turned up to tell me that the fellow had married
his landlady’s daughter at a registrar’s office that very day at 11.30
a.m., and had gone off with her to Margate for a week.  Our man had seen
the luggage being put on the cab.  There were some old Paris labels on
one of the bags.  Somehow I couldn’t get the fellow out of my head, and
the very next time I had to go to Paris on service I spoke about him to
that friend of mine in the Paris police.  My friend said: ‘From what you
tell me I think you must mean a rather well-known hanger-on and emissary
of the Revolutionary Red Committee.  He says he is an Englishman by
birth.  We have an idea that he has been for a good few years now a
secret agent of one of the foreign Embassies in London.’  This woke up my
memory completely.  He was the vanishing fellow I saw sitting on a chair
in Baron Stott-Wartenheim’s bathroom.  I told my friend that he was quite
right.  The fellow was a secret agent to my certain knowledge.
Afterwards my friend took the trouble to ferret out the complete record
of that man for me.  I thought I had better know all there was to know;
but I don’t suppose you want to hear his history now, sir?”

The Assistant Commissioner shook his supported head.  “The history of
your relations with that useful personage is the only thing that matters
just now,” he said, closing slowly his weary, deep-set eyes, and then
opening them swiftly with a greatly refreshed glance.

“There’s nothing official about them,” said the Chief Inspector bitterly.
“I went into his shop one evening, told him who I was, and reminded him
of our first meeting.  He didn’t as much as twitch an eyebrow.  He said
that he was married and settled now, and that all he wanted was not to be
interfered in his little business.  I took it upon myself to promise him
that, as long as he didn’t go in for anything obviously outrageous, he
would be left alone by the police.  That was worth something to him,
because a word from us to the Custom-House people would have been enough
to get some of these packages he gets from Paris and Brussels opened in
Dover, with confiscation to follow for certain, and perhaps a prosecution
as well at the end of it.”

