“That’s a very precarious trade,” murmured the Assistant Commissioner.
“Why did he go in for that?”

The Chief Inspector raised scornful eyebrows dispassionately.

“Most likely got a connection—friends on the Continent—amongst people who
deal in such wares.  They would be just the sort he would consort with.
He’s a lazy dog, too—like the rest of them.”

“What do you get from him in exchange for your protection?”

The Chief Inspector was not inclined to enlarge on the value of Mr
Verloc’s services.

“He would not be much good to anybody but myself.  One has got to know a
good deal beforehand to make use of a man like that.  I can understand
the sort of hint he can give.  And when I want a hint he can generally
furnish it to me.”

The Chief Inspector lost himself suddenly in a discreet reflective mood;
and the Assistant Commissioner repressed a smile at the fleeting thought
that the reputation of Chief Inspector Heat might possibly have been made
in a great part by the Secret Agent Verloc.

“In a more general way of being of use, all our men of the Special Crimes
section on duty at Charing Cross and Victoria have orders to take careful
notice of anybody they may see with him.  He meets the new arrivals
frequently, and afterwards keeps track of them.  He seems to have been
told off for that sort of duty.  When I want an address in a hurry, I can
always get it from him.  Of course, I know how to manage our relations.
I haven’t seen him to speak to three times in the last two years.  I drop
him a line, unsigned, and he answers me in the same way at my private
address.”

From time to time the Assistant Commissioner gave an almost imperceptible
nod.  The Chief Inspector added that he did not suppose Mr Verloc to be
deep in the confidence of the prominent members of the Revolutionary
International Council, but that he was generally trusted of that there
could be no doubt.  “Whenever I’ve had reason to think there was
something in the wind,” he concluded, “I’ve always found he could tell me
something worth knowing.”

