The Assistant Commissioner made a significant remark.

“He failed you this time.”

“Neither had I wind of anything in any other way,” retorted Chief
Inspector Heat.  “I asked him nothing, so he could tell me nothing.  He
isn’t one of our men.  It isn’t as if he were in our pay.”

“No,” muttered the Assistant Commissioner.  “He’s a spy in the pay of a
foreign government.  We could never confess to him.”

“I must do my work in my own way,” declared the Chief Inspector.  “When
it comes to that I would deal with the devil himself, and take the
consequences.  There are things not fit for everybody to know.”

“Your idea of secrecy seems to consist in keeping the chief of your
department in the dark.  That’s stretching it perhaps a little too far,
isn’t it?  He lives over his shop?”

“Who—Verloc?  Oh yes.  He lives over his shop.  The wife’s mother, I
fancy, lives with them.”

“Is the house watched?”

“Oh dear, no.  It wouldn’t do.  Certain people who come there are
watched.  My opinion is that he knows nothing of this affair.”

“How do you account for this?”  The Assistant Commissioner nodded at the
cloth rag lying before him on the table.

“I don’t account for it at all, sir.  It’s simply unaccountable.  It
can’t be explained by what I know.”  The Chief Inspector made those
admissions with the frankness of a man whose reputation is established as
if on a rock.  “At any rate not at this present moment.  I think that the
man who had most to do with it will turn out to be Michaelis.”

“You do?”

“Yes, sir; because I can answer for all the others.”

“What about that other man supposed to have escaped from the park?”

“I should think he’s far away by this time,” opined the Chief Inspector.

The Assistant Commissioner looked hard at him, and rose suddenly, as
though having made up his mind to some course of action.  As a matter of
fact, he had that very moment succumbed to a fascinating temptation.  The
Chief Inspector heard himself dismissed with instructions to meet his
superior early next morning for further consultation upon the case.  He
listened with an impenetrable face, and walked out of the room with
measured steps.

