The Assistant Commissioner had an amused smile.

“I was really thinking that it might be better at this stage for Heat to
be replaced by—”

“What!  Heat?  An ass—eh?” exclaimed the great man, with distinct
animosity.

“Not at all.  Pray, Sir Ethelred, don’t put that unjust interpretation on
my remarks.”

“Then what?  Too clever by half?”

“Neither—at least not as a rule.  All the grounds of my surmises I have
from him.  The only thing I’ve discovered by myself is that he has been
making use of that man privately.  Who could blame him?  He’s an old
police hand.  He told me virtually that he must have tools to work with.
It occurred to me that this tool should be surrendered to the Special
Crimes division as a whole, instead of remaining the private property of
Chief Inspector Heat.  I extend my conception of our departmental duties
to the suppression of the secret agent.  But Chief Inspector Heat is an
old departmental hand.  He would accuse me of perverting its morality and
attacking its efficiency.  He would define it bitterly as protection
extended to the criminal class of revolutionists.  It would mean just
that to him.”

“Yes.  But what do you mean?”

“I mean to say, first, that there’s but poor comfort in being able to
declare that any given act of violence—damaging property or destroying
life—is not the work of anarchism at all, but of something else
altogether—some species of authorised scoundrelism.  This, I fancy, is
much more frequent than we suppose.  Next, it’s obvious that the
existence of these people in the pay of foreign governments destroys in a
measure the efficiency of our supervision.  A spy of that sort can afford
to be more reckless than the most reckless of conspirators.  His
occupation is free from all restraint.  He’s without as much faith as is
necessary for complete negation, and without that much law as is implied
in lawlessness.  Thirdly, the existence of these spies amongst the
revolutionary groups, which we are reproached for harbouring here, does
away with all certitude.  You have received a reassuring statement from
Chief Inspector Heat some time ago.  It was by no means groundless—and
yet this episode happens.  I call it an episode, because this affair, I
make bold to say, is episodic; it is no part of any general scheme,
however wild.  The very peculiarities which surprise and perplex Chief
Inspector Heat establish its character in my eyes.  I am keeping clear of
details, Sir Ethelred.”

