The Personage on the hearthrug had been listening with profound
attention.

“Just so.  Be as concise as you can.”

The Assistant Commissioner intimated by an earnest deferential gesture
that he was anxious to be concise.

“There is a peculiar stupidity and feebleness in the conduct of this
affair which gives me excellent hopes of getting behind it and finding
there something else than an individual freak of fanaticism.  For it is a
planned thing, undoubtedly.  The actual perpetrator seems to have been
led by the hand to the spot, and then abandoned hurriedly to his own
devices.  The inference is that he was imported from abroad for the
purpose of committing this outrage.  At the same time one is forced to
the conclusion that he did not know enough English to ask his way, unless
one were to accept the fantastic theory that he was a deaf mute.  I
wonder now—But this is idle.  He has destroyed himself by an accident,
obviously.  Not an extraordinary accident.  But an extraordinary little
fact remains: the address on his clothing discovered by the merest
accident, too.  It is an incredible little fact, so incredible that the
explanation which will account for it is bound to touch the bottom of
this affair.  Instead of instructing Heat to go on with this case, my
intention is to seek this explanation personally—by myself, I mean—where
it may be picked up.  That is in a certain shop in Brett Street, and on
the lips of a certain secret agent once upon a time the confidential and
trusted spy of the late Baron Stott-Wartenheim, Ambassador of a Great
Power to the Court of St James.”

The Assistant Commissioner paused, then added: “Those fellows are a
perfect pest.”  In order to raise his drooping glance to the speaker’s
face, the Personage on the hearthrug had gradually tilted his head
farther back, which gave him an aspect of extraordinary haughtiness.

“Why not leave it to Heat?”

“Because he is an old departmental hand.  They have their own morality.
My line of inquiry would appear to him an awful perversion of duty.  For
him the plain duty is to fasten the guilt upon as many prominent
anarchists as he can on some slight indications he had picked up in the
course of his investigation on the spot; whereas I, he would say, am bent
upon vindicating their innocence.  I am trying to be as lucid as I can in
presenting this obscure matter to you without details.”

