“That’s all right.  But seriously, you can’t imagine how irritated he is
by the attacks on his Bill for the Nationalisation of Fisheries.  They
call it the beginning of social revolution.  Of course, it is a
revolutionary measure.  But these fellows have no decency.  The personal
attacks—”

“I read the papers,” remarked the Assistant Commissioner.

“Odious?  Eh?  And you have no notion what a mass of work he has got to
get through every day.  He does it all himself.  Seems unable to trust
anyone with these Fisheries.”

“And yet he’s given a whole half hour to the consideration of my very
small sprat,” interjected the Assistant Commissioner.

“Small!  Is it?  I’m glad to hear that.  But it’s a pity you didn’t keep
away, then.  This fight takes it out of him frightfully.  The man’s
getting exhausted.  I feel it by the way he leans on my arm as we walk
over.  And, I say, is he safe in the streets?  Mullins has been marching
his men up here this afternoon.  There’s a constable stuck by every
lamp-post, and every second person we meet between this and Palace Yard
is an obvious ‘tec.’  It will get on his nerves presently.  I say, these
foreign scoundrels aren’t likely to throw something at him—are they?  It
would be a national calamity.  The country can’t spare him.”

“Not to mention yourself.  He leans on your arm,” suggested the Assistant
Commissioner soberly.  “You would both go.”

“It would be an easy way for a young man to go down into history?  Not so
many British Ministers have been assassinated as to make it a minor
incident.  But seriously now—”

“I am afraid that if you want to go down into history you’ll have to do
something for it.  Seriously, there’s no danger whatever for both of you
but from overwork.”

The sympathetic Toodles welcomed this opening for a chuckle.

“The Fisheries won’t kill me.  I am used to late hours,” he declared,
with ingenuous levity.  But, feeling an instant compunction, he began to
assume an air of statesman-like moodiness, as one draws on a glove.  “His
massive intellect will stand any amount of work.  It’s his nerves that I
am afraid of.  The reactionary gang, with that abusive brute Cheeseman at
their head, insult him every night.”

