“If he will insist on beginning a revolution!” murmured the Assistant
Commissioner.

“The time has come, and he is the only man great enough for the work,”
protested the revolutionary Toodles, flaring up under the calm,
speculative gaze of the Assistant Commissioner.  Somewhere in a corridor
a distant bell tinkled urgently, and with devoted vigilance the young man
pricked up his ears at the sound.  “He’s ready to go now,” he exclaimed
in a whisper, snatched up his hat, and vanished from the room.

The Assistant Commissioner went out by another door in a less elastic
manner.  Again he crossed the wide thoroughfare, walked along a narrow
street, and re-entered hastily his own departmental buildings.  He kept
up this accelerated pace to the door of his private room.  Before he had
closed it fairly his eyes sought his desk.  He stood still for a moment,
then walked up, looked all round on the floor, sat down in his chair,
rang a bell, and waited.

“Chief Inspector Heat gone yet?”

“Yes, sir.  Went away half-an-hour ago.”

He nodded.  “That will do.”  And sitting still, with his hat pushed off
his forehead, he thought that it was just like Heat’s confounded cheek to
carry off quietly the only piece of material evidence.  But he thought
this without animosity.  Old and valued servants will take liberties.
The piece of overcoat with the address sewn on was certainly not a thing
to leave about.  Dismissing from his mind this manifestation of Chief
Inspector Heat’s mistrust, he wrote and despatched a note to his wife,
charging her to make his apologies to Michaelis’ great lady, with whom
they were engaged to dine that evening.

The short jacket and the low, round hat he assumed in a sort of curtained
alcove containing a washstand, a row of wooden pegs and a shelf, brought
out wonderfully the length of his grave, brown face.  He stepped back
into the full light of the room, looking like the vision of a cool,
reflective Don Quixote, with the sunken eyes of a dark enthusiast and a
very deliberate manner.  He left the scene of his daily labours quickly
like an unobtrusive shadow.  His descent into the street was like the
descent into a slimy aquarium from which the water had been run off.  A
murky, gloomy dampness enveloped him.  The walls of the houses were wet,
the mud of the roadway glistened with an effect of phosphorescence, and
when he emerged into the Strand out of a narrow street by the side of
Charing Cross Station the genius of the locality assimilated him.  He
might have been but one more of the queer foreign fish that can be seen
of an evening about there flitting round the dark corners.

