He came to a stand on the very edge of the pavement, and waited.  His
exercised eyes had made out in the confused movements of lights and
shadows thronging the roadway the crawling approach of a hansom.  He gave
no sign; but when the low step gliding along the curbstone came to his
feet he dodged in skilfully in front of the big turning wheel, and spoke
up through the little trap door almost before the man gazing supinely
ahead from his perch was aware of having been boarded by a fare.

It was not a long drive.  It ended by signal abruptly, nowhere in
particular, between two lamp-posts before a large drapery establishment—a
long range of shops already lapped up in sheets of corrugated iron for
the night.  Tendering a coin through the trap door the fare slipped out
and away, leaving an effect of uncanny, eccentric ghastliness upon the
driver’s mind.  But the size of the coin was satisfactory to his touch,
and his education not being literary, he remained untroubled by the fear
of finding it presently turned to a dead leaf in his pocket.  Raised
above the world of fares by the nature of his calling, he contemplated
their actions with a limited interest.  The sharp pulling of his horse
right round expressed his philosophy.

Meantime the Assistant Commissioner was already giving his order to a
waiter in a little Italian restaurant round the corner—one of those traps
for the hungry, long and narrow, baited with a perspective of mirrors and
white napery; without air, but with an atmosphere of their own—an
atmosphere of fraudulent cookery mocking an abject mankind in the most
pressing of its miserable necessities.  In this immoral atmosphere the
Assistant Commissioner, reflecting upon his enterprise, seemed to lose
some more of his identity.  He had a sense of loneliness, of evil
freedom.  It was rather pleasant.  When, after paying for his short meal,
he stood up and waited for his change, he saw himself in the sheet of
glass, and was struck by his foreign appearance.  He contemplated his own
image with a melancholy and inquisitive gaze, then by sudden inspiration
raised the collar of his jacket.  This arrangement appeared to him
commendable, and he completed it by giving an upward twist to the ends of
his black moustache.  He was satisfied by the subtle modification of his
personal aspect caused by these small changes.  “That’ll do very well,”
he thought.  “I’ll get a little wet, a little splashed—”

