The police constable of the locality quieted him by a friendly glance;
then addressing himself to the two women without marked consideration,
said:

“He’s been driving a cab for twenty years.  I never knew him to have an
accident.”

“Accident!” shouted the driver in a scornful whisper.

The policeman’s testimony settled it.  The modest assemblage of seven
people, mostly under age, dispersed.  Winnie followed her mother into the
cab.  Stevie climbed on the box.  His vacant mouth and distressed eyes
depicted the state of his mind in regard to the transactions which were
taking place.  In the narrow streets the progress of the journey was made
sensible to those within by the near fronts of the houses gliding past
slowly and shakily, with a great rattle and jingling of glass, as if
about to collapse behind the cab; and the infirm horse, with the harness
hung over his sharp backbone flapping very loose about his thighs,
appeared to be dancing mincingly on his toes with infinite patience.
Later on, in the wider space of Whitehall, all visual evidences of motion
became imperceptible.  The rattle and jingle of glass went on
indefinitely in front of the long Treasury building—and time itself
seemed to stand still.

At last Winnie observed: “This isn’t a very good horse.”

Her eyes gleamed in the shadow of the cab straight ahead, immovable.  On
the box, Stevie shut his vacant mouth first, in order to ejaculate
earnestly: “Don’t.”

The driver, holding high the reins twisted around the hook, took no
notice.  Perhaps he had not heard.  Stevie’s breast heaved.

“Don’t whip.”

The man turned slowly his bloated and sodden face of many colours
bristling with white hairs.  His little red eyes glistened with moisture.
His big lips had a violet tint.  They remained closed.  With the dirty
back of his whip-hand he rubbed the stubble sprouting on his enormous
chin.

“You mustn’t,” stammered out Stevie violently.  “It hurts.”

“Mustn’t whip,” queried the other in a thoughtful whisper, and
immediately whipped.  He did this, not because his soul was cruel and his
heart evil, but because he had to earn his fare.  And for a time the
walls of St Stephen’s, with its towers and pinnacles, contemplated in
immobility and silence a cab that jingled.  It rolled too, however.  But
on the bridge there was a commotion.  Stevie suddenly proceeded to get
down from the box.  There were shouts on the pavement, people ran
forward, the driver pulled up, whispering curses of indignation and
astonishment.  Winnie lowered the window, and put her head out, white as
a ghost.  In the depths of the cab, her mother was exclaiming, in tones
of anguish: “Is that boy hurt?  Is that boy hurt?”

