Stevie was not hurt, he had not even fallen, but excitement as usual had
robbed him of the power of connected speech.  He could do no more than
stammer at the window.  “Too heavy.  Too heavy.”  Winnie put out her hand
on to his shoulder.

“Stevie!  Get up on the box directly, and don’t try to get down again.”

“No.  No.  Walk.  Must walk.”

In trying to state the nature of that necessity he stammered himself into
utter incoherence.  No physical impossibility stood in the way of his
whim.  Stevie could have managed easily to keep pace with the infirm,
dancing horse without getting out of breath.  But his sister withheld her
consent decisively.  “The idea!  Whoever heard of such a thing!  Run
after a cab!”  Her mother, frightened and helpless in the depths of the
conveyance, entreated: “Oh, don’t let him, Winnie.  He’ll get lost.
Don’t let him.”

“Certainly not.  What next!  Mr Verloc will be sorry to hear of this
nonsense, Stevie,—I can tell you.  He won’t be happy at all.”

The idea of Mr Verloc’s grief and unhappiness acting as usual powerfully
upon Stevie’s fundamentally docile disposition, he abandoned all
resistance, and climbed up again on the box, with a face of despair.

The cabby turned at him his enormous and inflamed countenance
truculently.  “Don’t you go for trying this silly game again, young
fellow.”

After delivering himself thus in a stern whisper, strained almost to
extinction, he drove on, ruminating solemnly.  To his mind the incident
remained somewhat obscure.  But his intellect, though it had lost its
pristine vivacity in the benumbing years of sedentary exposure to the
weather, lacked not independence or sanity.  Gravely he dismissed the
hypothesis of Stevie being a drunken young nipper.

Inside the cab the spell of silence, in which the two women had endured
shoulder to shoulder the jolting, rattling, and jingling of the journey,
had been broken by Stevie’s outbreak.  Winnie raised her voice.

“You’ve done what you wanted, mother.  You’ll have only yourself to thank
for it if you aren’t happy afterwards.  And I don’t think you’ll be.
That I don’t.  Weren’t you comfortable enough in the house?  Whatever
people’ll think of us—you throwing yourself like this on a Charity?”

