“My dear,” screamed the old woman earnestly above the noise, “you’ve been
the best of daughters to me.  As to Mr Verloc—there—”

Words failing her on the subject of Mr Verloc’s excellence, she turned
her old tearful eyes to the roof of the cab.  Then she averted her head
on the pretence of looking out of the window, as if to judge of their
progress.  It was insignificant, and went on close to the curbstone.
Night, the early dirty night, the sinister, noisy, hopeless and rowdy
night of South London, had overtaken her on her last cab drive.  In the
gas-light of the low-fronted shops her big cheeks glowed with an orange
hue under a black and mauve bonnet.

Mrs Verloc’s mother’s complexion had become yellow by the effect of age
and from a natural predisposition to biliousness, favoured by the trials
of a difficult and worried existence, first as wife, then as widow.  It
was a complexion, that under the influence of a blush would take on an
orange tint.  And this woman, modest indeed but hardened in the fires of
adversity, of an age, moreover, when blushes are not expected, had
positively blushed before her daughter.  In the privacy of a
four-wheeler, on her way to a charity cottage (one of a row) which by the
exiguity of its dimensions and the simplicity of its accommodation, might
well have been devised in kindness as a place of training for the still
more straitened circumstances of the grave, she was forced to hide from
her own child a blush of remorse and shame.

Whatever people will think?  She knew very well what they did think, the
people Winnie had in her mind—the old friends of her husband, and others
too, whose interest she had solicited with such flattering success.  She
had not known before what a good beggar she could be.  But she guessed
very well what inference was drawn from her application.  On account of
that shrinking delicacy, which exists side by side with aggressive
brutality in masculine nature, the inquiries into her circumstances had
not been pushed very far.  She had checked them by a visible compression
of the lips and some display of an emotion determined to be eloquently
silent.  And the men would become suddenly incurious, after the manner of
their kind.  She congratulated herself more than once on having nothing
to do with women, who being naturally more callous and avid of details,
would have been anxious to be exactly informed by what sort of unkind
conduct her daughter and son-in-law had driven her to that sad extremity.
It was only before the Secretary of the great brewer M. P. and Chairman
of the Charity, who, acting for his principal, felt bound to be
conscientiously inquisitive as to the real circumstances of the
applicant, that she had burst into tears outright and aloud, as a
cornered woman will weep.  The thin and polite gentleman, after
contemplating her with an air of being “struck all of a heap,” abandoned
his position under the cover of soothing remarks.  She must not distress
herself.  The deed of the Charity did not absolutely specify “childless
widows.”  In fact, it did not by any means disqualify her.  But the
discretion of the Committee must be an informed discretion.  One could
understand very well her unwillingness to be a burden, etc. etc.
Thereupon, to his profound disappointment, Mrs Verloc’s mother wept some
more with an augmented vehemence.

