The tears of that large female in a dark, dusty wig, and ancient silk
dress festooned with dingy white cotton lace, were the tears of genuine
distress.  She had wept because she was heroic and unscrupulous and full
of love for both her children.  Girls frequently get sacrificed to the
welfare of the boys.  In this case she was sacrificing Winnie.  By the
suppression of truth she was slandering her.  Of course, Winnie was
independent, and need not care for the opinion of people that she would
never see and who would never see her; whereas poor Stevie had nothing in
the world he could call his own except his mother’s heroism and
unscrupulousness.

The first sense of security following on Winnie’s marriage wore off in
time (for nothing lasts), and Mrs Verloc’s mother, in the seclusion of
the back bedroom, had recalled the teaching of that experience which the
world impresses upon a widowed woman.  But she had recalled it without
vain bitterness; her store of resignation amounted almost to dignity.
She reflected stoically that everything decays, wears out, in this world;
that the way of kindness should be made easy to the well disposed; that
her daughter Winnie was a most devoted sister, and a very self-confident
wife indeed.  As regards Winnie’s sisterly devotion, her stoicism
flinched.  She excepted that sentiment from the rule of decay affecting
all things human and some things divine.  She could not help it; not to
do so would have frightened her too much.  But in considering the
conditions of her daughter’s married state, she rejected firmly all
flattering illusions.  She took the cold and reasonable view that the
less strain put on Mr Verloc’s kindness the longer its effects were
likely to last.  That excellent man loved his wife, of course, but he
would, no doubt, prefer to keep as few of her relations as was consistent
with the proper display of that sentiment.  It would be better if its
whole effect were concentrated on poor Stevie.  And the heroic old woman
resolved on going away from her children as an act of devotion and as a
move of deep policy.

