In the parlour Mrs Verloc observed, with knowledge:

“There’s Mrs Neale at it again with her harrowing tales about her little
children.  They can’t be all so little as she makes them out.  Some of
them must be big enough by now to try to do something for themselves.  It
only makes Stevie angry.”

These words were confirmed by a thud as of a fist striking the kitchen
table.  In the normal evolution of his sympathy Stevie had become angry
on discovering that he had no shilling in his pocket.  In his inability
to relieve at once Mrs Neale’s “little ’uns’” privations, he felt that
somebody should be made to suffer for it.  Mrs Verloc rose, and went into
the kitchen to “stop that nonsense.”  And she did it firmly but gently.
She was well aware that directly Mrs Neale received her money she went
round the corner to drink ardent spirits in a mean and musty
public-house—the unavoidable station on the _via dolorosa_ of her life.
Mrs Verloc’s comment upon this practice had an unexpected profundity, as
coming from a person disinclined to look under the surface of things.
“Of course, what is she to do to keep up?  If I were like Mrs Neale I
expect I wouldn’t act any different.”

In the afternoon of the same day, as Mr Verloc, coming with a start out
of the last of a long series of dozes before the parlour fire, declared
his intention of going out for a walk, Winnie said from the shop:

“I wish you would take that boy out with you, Adolf.”

For the third time that day Mr Verloc was surprised.  He stared stupidly
at his wife.  She continued in her steady manner.  The boy, whenever he
was not doing anything, moped in the house.  It made her uneasy; it made
her nervous, she confessed.  And that from the calm Winnie sounded like
exaggeration.  But, in truth, Stevie moped in the striking fashion of an
unhappy domestic animal.  He would go up on the dark landing, to sit on
the floor at the foot of the tall clock, with his knees drawn up and his
head in his hands.  To come upon his pallid face, with its big eyes
gleaming in the dusk, was discomposing; to think of him up there was
uncomfortable.

