He looked up, and shook his head.  His eyes were bloodshot and his face
red.  His fingers had ruffled his hair into a dissipated untidiness.
Altogether he had a disreputable aspect, expressive of the discomfort,
the irritation and the gloom following a heavy debauch.  But Mr Verloc
was not a debauched man.  In his conduct he was respectable.  His
appearance might have been the effect of a feverish cold.  He drank three
cups of tea, but abstained from food entirely.  He recoiled from it with
sombre aversion when urged by Mrs Verloc, who said at last:

“Aren’t your feet wet?  You had better put on your slippers.  You aren’t
going out any more this evening.”

Mr Verloc intimated by morose grunts and signs that his feet were not
wet, and that anyhow he did not care.  The proposal as to slippers was
disregarded as beneath his notice.  But the question of going out in the
evening received an unexpected development.  It was not of going out in
the evening that Mr Verloc was thinking.  His thoughts embraced a vaster
scheme.  From moody and incomplete phrases it became apparent that Mr
Verloc had been considering the expediency of emigrating.  It was not
very clear whether he had in his mind France or California.

The utter unexpectedness, improbability, and inconceivableness of such an
event robbed this vague declaration of all its effect.  Mrs Verloc, as
placidly as if her husband had been threatening her with the end of the
world, said:

“The idea!”

Mr Verloc declared himself sick and tired of everything, and besides—She
interrupted him.

“You’ve a bad cold.”

It was indeed obvious that Mr Verloc was not in his usual state,
physically and even mentally.  A sombre irresolution held him silent for
a while.  Then he murmured a few ominous generalities on the theme of
necessity.

“Will have to,” repeated Winnie, sitting calmly back, with folded arms,
opposite her husband.  “I should like to know who’s to make you.  You
ain’t a slave.  No one need be a slave in this country—and don’t you make
yourself one.”  She paused, and with invincible and steady candour.  “The
business isn’t so bad,” she went on.  “You’ve a comfortable home.”

