She glanced all round the parlour, from the corner cupboard to the good
fire in the grate.  Ensconced cosily behind the shop of doubtful wares,
with the mysteriously dim window, and its door suspiciously ajar in the
obscure and narrow street, it was in all essentials of domestic propriety
and domestic comfort a respectable home.  Her devoted affection missed
out of it her brother Stevie, now enjoying a damp villegiature in the
Kentish lanes under the care of Mr Michaelis.  She missed him poignantly,
with all the force of her protecting passion.  This was the boy’s home
too—the roof, the cupboard, the stoked grate.  On this thought Mrs Verloc
rose, and walking to the other end of the table, said in the fulness of
her heart:

“And you are not tired of me.”

Mr Verloc made no sound.  Winnie leaned on his shoulder from behind, and
pressed her lips to his forehead.  Thus she lingered.  Not a whisper
reached them from the outside world.

The sound of footsteps on the pavement died out in the discreet dimness
of the shop.  Only the gas-jet above the table went on purring equably in
the brooding silence of the parlour.

During the contact of that unexpected and lingering kiss Mr Verloc,
gripping with both hands the edges of his chair, preserved a hieratic
immobility.  When the pressure was removed he let go the chair, rose, and
went to stand before the fireplace.  He turned no longer his back to the
room.  With his features swollen and an air of being drugged, he followed
his wife’s movements with his eyes.

Mrs Verloc went about serenely, clearing up the table.  Her tranquil
voice commented the idea thrown out in a reasonable and domestic tone.
It wouldn’t stand examination.  She condemned it from every point of
view.  But her only real concern was Stevie’s welfare.  He appeared to
her thought in that connection as sufficiently “peculiar” not to be taken
rashly abroad.  And that was all.  But talking round that vital point,
she approached absolute vehemence in her delivery.  Meanwhile, with
brusque movements, she arrayed herself in an apron for the washing up of
cups.  And as if excited by the sound of her uncontradicted voice, she
went so far as to say in a tone almost tart:

