“If you go abroad you’ll have to go without me.”

“You know I wouldn’t,” said Mr Verloc huskily, and the unresonant voice
of his private life trembled with an enigmatical emotion.

Already Mrs Verloc was regretting her words.  They had sounded more
unkind than she meant them to be.  They had also the unwisdom of
unnecessary things.  In fact, she had not meant them at all.  It was a
sort of phrase that is suggested by the demon of perverse inspiration.
But she knew a way to make it as if it had not been.

She turned her head over her shoulder and gave that man planted heavily
in front of the fireplace a glance, half arch, half cruel, out of her
large eyes—a glance of which the Winnie of the Belgravian mansion days
would have been incapable, because of her respectability and her
ignorance.  But the man was her husband now, and she was no longer
ignorant.  She kept it on him for a whole second, with her grave face
motionless like a mask, while she said playfully:

“You couldn’t.  You would miss me too much.”

Mr Verloc started forward.

“Exactly,” he said in a louder tone, throwing his arms out and making a
step towards her.  Something wild and doubtful in his expression made it
appear uncertain whether he meant to strangle or to embrace his wife.
But Mrs Verloc’s attention was called away from that manifestation by the
clatter of the shop bell.

“Shop, Adolf.  You go.”

He stopped, his arms came down slowly.

“You go,” repeated Mrs Verloc.  “I’ve got my apron on.”

Mr Verloc obeyed woodenly, stony-eyed, and like an automaton whose face
had been painted red.  And this resemblance to a mechanical figure went
so far that he had an automaton’s absurd air of being aware of the
machinery inside of him.

He closed the parlour door, and Mrs Verloc moving briskly, carried the
tray into the kitchen.  She washed the cups and some other things before
she stopped in her work to listen.  No sound reached her.  The customer
was a long time in the shop.  It was a customer, because if he had not
been Mr Verloc would have taken him inside.  Undoing the strings of her
apron with a jerk, she threw it on a chair, and walked back to the
parlour slowly.

