At that precise moment Mr Verloc entered from the shop.

He had gone in red.  He came out a strange papery white.  His face,
losing its drugged, feverish stupor, had in that short time acquired a
bewildered and harassed expression.  He walked straight to the sofa, and
stood looking down at his overcoat lying there, as though he were afraid
to touch it.

“What’s the matter?” asked Mrs Verloc in a subdued voice.  Through the
door left ajar she could see that the customer was not gone yet.

“I find I’ll have to go out this evening,” said Mr Verloc.  He did not
attempt to pick up his outer garment.

Without a word Winnie made for the shop, and shutting the door after her,
walked in behind the counter.  She did not look overtly at the customer
till she had established herself comfortably on the chair.  But by that
time she had noted that he was tall and thin, and wore his moustaches
twisted up.  In fact, he gave the sharp points a twist just then.  His
long, bony face rose out of a turned-up collar.  He was a little
splashed, a little wet.  A dark man, with the ridge of the cheek-bone
well defined under the slightly hollow temple.  A complete stranger.  Not
a customer either.

Mrs Verloc looked at him placidly.

“You came over from the Continent?” she said after a time.

The long, thin stranger, without exactly looking at Mrs Verloc, answered
only by a faint and peculiar smile.

Mrs Verloc’s steady, incurious gaze rested on him.

“You understand English, don’t you?”

“Oh yes.  I understand English.”

There was nothing foreign in his accent, except that he seemed in his
slow enunciation to be taking pains with it.  And Mrs Verloc, in her
varied experience, had come to the conclusion that some foreigners could
speak better English than the natives.  She said, looking at the door of
the parlour fixedly:

“You don’t think perhaps of staying in England for good?”

The stranger gave her again a silent smile.  He had a kindly mouth and
probing eyes.  And he shook his head a little sadly, it seemed.

