“That’s funny,” continued Private Citizen Heat.  “I see you keep a lot of
marking ink here—”

He took up a small bottle, and looked at it against the gas-jet in the
middle of the shop.

“Purple—isn’t it?” he remarked, setting it down again.  “As I said, it’s
strange.  Because the overcoat has got a label sewn on the inside with
your address written in marking ink.”

Mrs Verloc leaned over the counter with a low exclamation.

“That’s my brother’s, then.”

“Where’s your brother?  Can I see him?” asked the Chief Inspector
briskly.  Mrs Verloc leaned a little more over the counter.

“No.  He isn’t here.  I wrote that label myself.”

“Where’s your brother now?”

“He’s been away living with—a friend—in the country.”

“The overcoat comes from the country.  And what’s the name of the
friend?”

“Michaelis,” confessed Mrs Verloc in an awed whisper.

The Chief Inspector let out a whistle.  His eyes snapped.

“Just so.  Capital.  And your brother now, what’s he like—a sturdy,
darkish chap—eh?”

“Oh no,” exclaimed Mrs Verloc fervently.  “That must be the thief.
Stevie’s slight and fair.”

“Good,” said the Chief Inspector in an approving tone.  And while Mrs
Verloc, wavering between alarm and wonder, stared at him, he sought for
information.  Why have the address sewn like this inside the coat?  And
he heard that the mangled remains he had inspected that morning with
extreme repugnance were those of a youth, nervous, absent-minded,
peculiar, and also that the woman who was speaking to him had had the
charge of that boy since he was a baby.

“Easily excitable?” he suggested.

“Oh yes.  He is.  But how did he come to lose his coat—”

Chief Inspector Heat suddenly pulled out a pink newspaper he had bought
less than half-an-hour ago.  He was interested in horses.  Forced by his
calling into an attitude of doubt and suspicion towards his
fellow-citizens, Chief Inspector Heat relieved the instinct of credulity
implanted in the human breast by putting unbounded faith in the sporting
prophets of that particular evening publication.  Dropping the extra
special on to the counter, he plunged his hand again into his pocket, and
pulling out the piece of cloth fate had presented him with out of a heap
of things that seemed to have been collected in shambles and rag shops,
he offered it to Mrs Verloc for inspection.

