“Oh no!  I know too well who you have been giving yourself away to.
He’ll have to manage this little affair all by himself.  But don’t you
make a mistake, it’s I who found you out.”

Then she heard only muttering.  Inspector Heat must have been showing to
Mr Verloc the piece of Stevie’s overcoat, because Stevie’s sister,
guardian, and protector heard her husband a little louder.

“I never noticed that she had hit upon that dodge.”

Again for a time Mrs Verloc heard nothing but murmurs, whose
mysteriousness was less nightmarish to her brain than the horrible
suggestions of shaped words.  Then Chief Inspector Heat, on the other
side of the door, raised his voice.

“You must have been mad.”

And Mr Verloc’s voice answered, with a sort of gloomy fury:

“I have been mad for a month or more, but I am not mad now.  It’s all
over.  It shall all come out of my head, and hang the consequences.”

There was a silence, and then Private Citizen Heat murmured:

“What’s coming out?”

“Everything,” exclaimed the voice of Mr Verloc, and then sank very low.

After a while it rose again.

“You have known me for several years now, and you’ve found me useful,
too.  You know I was a straight man.  Yes, straight.”

This appeal to old acquaintance must have been extremely distasteful to
the Chief Inspector.

His voice took on a warning note.

“Don’t you trust so much to what you have been promised.  If I were you I
would clear out.  I don’t think we will run after you.”

Mr Verloc was heard to laugh a little.

“Oh yes; you hope the others will get rid of me for you—don’t you?  No,
no; you don’t shake me off now.  I have been a straight man to those
people too long, and now everything must come out.”

“Let it come out, then,” the indifferent voice of Chief Inspector Heat
assented.  “But tell me now how did you get away.”

“I was making for Chesterfield Walk,” Mrs Verloc heard her husband’s
voice, “when I heard the bang.  I started running then.  Fog.  I saw no
one till I was past the end of George Street.  Don’t think I met anyone
till then.”

