“Perhaps not.  But it will upset many things.  I have been a straight
man, and I shall keep straight in this—”

“If they let you,” said the Chief Inspector cynically.  “You will be
preached to, no doubt, before they put you into the dock.  And in the end
you may yet get let in for a sentence that will surprise you.  I wouldn’t
trust too much the gentleman who’s been talking to you.”

Mr Verloc listened, frowning.

“My advice to you is to clear out while you may.  I have no instructions.
There are some of them,” continued Chief Inspector Heat, laying a
peculiar stress on the word “them,” “who think you are already out of the
world.”

“Indeed!” Mr Verloc was moved to say.  Though since his return from
Greenwich he had spent most of his time sitting in the tap-room of an
obscure little public-house, he could hardly have hoped for such
favourable news.

“That’s the impression about you.”  The Chief Inspector nodded at him.
“Vanish.  Clear out.”

“Where to?” snarled Mr Verloc.  He raised his head, and gazing at the
closed door of the parlour, muttered feelingly: “I only wish you would
take me away to-night.  I would go quietly.”

“I daresay,” assented sardonically the Chief Inspector, following the
direction of his glance.

The brow of Mr Verloc broke into slight moisture.  He lowered his husky
voice confidentially before the unmoved Chief Inspector.

“The lad was half-witted, irresponsible.  Any court would have seen that
at once.  Only fit for the asylum.  And that was the worst that would’ve
happened to him if—”

The Chief Inspector, his hand on the door handle, whispered into Mr
Verloc’s face.

“He may’ve been half-witted, but you must have been crazy.  What drove
you off your head like this?”

Mr Verloc, thinking of Mr Vladimir, did not hesitate in the choice of
words.

“A Hyperborean swine,” he hissed forcibly.  “A what you might call a—a
gentleman.”

The Chief Inspector, steady-eyed, nodded briefly his comprehension, and
opened the door.  Mrs Verloc, behind the counter, might have heard but
did not see his departure, pursued by the aggressive clatter of the bell.
She sat at her post of duty behind the counter.  She sat rigidly erect in
the chair with two dirty pink pieces of paper lying spread out at her
feet.  The palms of her hands were pressed convulsively to her face, with
the tips of the fingers contracted against the forehead, as though the
skin had been a mask which she was ready to tear off violently.  The
perfect immobility of her pose expressed the agitation of rage and
despair, all the potential violence of tragic passions, better than any
shallow display of shrieks, with the beating of a distracted head against
the walls, could have done.  Chief Inspector Heat, crossing the shop at
his busy, swinging pace, gave her only a cursory glance.  And when the
cracked bell ceased to tremble on its curved ribbon of steel nothing
stirred near Mrs Verloc, as if her attitude had the locking power of a
spell.  Even the butterfly-shaped gas flames posed on the ends of the
suspended T-bracket burned without a quiver.  In that shop of shady wares
fitted with deal shelves painted a dull brown, which seemed to devour the
sheen of the light, the gold circlet of the wedding ring on Mrs Verloc’s
left hand glittered exceedingly with the untarnished glory of a piece
from some splendid treasure of jewels, dropped in a dust-bin.

