


CHAPTER X


The Assistant Commissioner, driven rapidly in a hansom from the
neighbourhood of Soho in the direction of Westminster, got out at the
very centre of the Empire on which the sun never sets.  Some stalwart
constables, who did not seem particularly impressed by the duty of
watching the august spot, saluted him.  Penetrating through a portal by
no means lofty into the precincts of the House which is _the_ House, _par
excellence_ in the minds of many millions of men, he was met at last by
the volatile and revolutionary Toodles.

That neat and nice young man concealed his astonishment at the early
appearance of the Assistant Commissioner, whom he had been told to look
out for some time about midnight.  His turning up so early he concluded
to be the sign that things, whatever they were, had gone wrong.  With an
extremely ready sympathy, which in nice youngsters goes often with a
joyous temperament, he felt sorry for the great Presence he called “The
Chief,” and also for the Assistant Commissioner, whose face appeared to
him more ominously wooden than ever before, and quite wonderfully long.
“What a queer, foreign-looking chap he is,” he thought to himself,
smiling from a distance with friendly buoyancy.  And directly they came
together he began to talk with the kind intention of burying the
awkwardness of failure under a heap of words.  It looked as if the great
assault threatened for that night were going to fizzle out.  An inferior
henchman of “that brute Cheeseman” was up boring mercilessly a very thin
House with some shamelessly cooked statistics.  He, Toodles, hoped he
would bore them into a count out every minute.  But then he might be only
marking time to let that guzzling Cheeseman dine at his leisure.  Anyway,
the Chief could not be persuaded to go home.

“He will see you at once, I think.  He’s sitting all alone in his room
thinking of all the fishes of the sea,” concluded Toodles airily.  “Come
along.”

Notwithstanding the kindness of his disposition, the young private
secretary (unpaid) was accessible to the common failings of humanity.  He
did not wish to harrow the feelings of the Assistant Commissioner, who
looked to him uncommonly like a man who has made a mess of his job.  But
his curiosity was too strong to be restrained by mere compassion.  He
could not help, as they went along, to throw over his shoulder lightly:

