“Well!  What is it that you’ve found out already?  You came upon
something unexpected on the first step.”

“Not exactly unexpected, Sir Ethelred.  What I mainly came upon was a
psychological state.”

The Great Presence made a slight movement.  “You must be lucid, please.”

“Yes, Sir Ethelred.  You know no doubt that most criminals at some time
or other feel an irresistible need of confessing—of making a clean breast
of it to somebody—to anybody.  And they do it often to the police.  In
that Verloc whom Heat wished so much to screen I’ve found a man in that
particular psychological state.  The man, figuratively speaking, flung
himself on my breast.  It was enough on my part to whisper to him who I
was and to add ‘I know that you are at the bottom of this affair.’  It
must have seemed miraculous to him that we should know already, but he
took it all in the stride.  The wonderfulness of it never checked him for
a moment.  There remained for me only to put to him the two questions:
Who put you up to it? and Who was the man who did it?  He answered the
first with remarkable emphasis.  As to the second question, I gather that
the fellow with the bomb was his brother-in-law—quite a lad—a weak-minded
creature. . . . It is rather a curious affair—too long perhaps to state
fully just now.”

“What then have you learned?” asked the great man.

“First, I’ve learned that the ex-convict Michaelis had nothing to do with
it, though indeed the lad had been living with him temporarily in the
country up to eight o’clock this morning.  It is more than likely that
Michaelis knows nothing of it to this moment.”

“You are positive as to that?” asked the great man.

“Quite certain, Sir Ethelred.  This fellow Verloc went there this
morning, and took away the lad on the pretence of going out for a walk in
the lanes.  As it was not the first time that he did this, Michaelis
could not have the slightest suspicion of anything unusual.  For the
rest, Sir Ethelred, the indignation of this man Verloc had left nothing
in doubt—nothing whatever.  He had been driven out of his mind almost by
an extraordinary performance, which for you or me it would be difficult
to take as seriously meant, but which produced a great impression
obviously on him.”

