“Rotten weather,” he growled savagely.

“Mild,” said the Assistant Commissioner without passion.  He remained
silent for a little while.  “We’ve got hold of a man called Verloc,” he
announced casually.

Mr Vladimir did not stumble, did not stagger back, did not change his
stride.  But he could not prevent himself from exclaiming: “What?”  The
Assistant Commissioner did not repeat his statement.  “You know him,” he
went on in the same tone.

Mr Vladimir stopped, and became guttural.  “What makes you say that?”

“I don’t.  It’s Verloc who says that.”

“A lying dog of some sort,” said Mr Vladimir in somewhat Oriental
phraseology.  But in his heart he was almost awed by the miraculous
cleverness of the English police.  The change of his opinion on the
subject was so violent that it made him for a moment feel slightly sick.
He threw away his cigar, and moved on.

“What pleased me most in this affair,” the Assistant went on, talking
slowly, “is that it makes such an excellent starting-point for a piece of
work which I’ve felt must be taken in hand—that is, the clearing out of
this country of all the foreign political spies, police, and that sort
of—of—dogs.  In my opinion they are a ghastly nuisance; also an element
of danger.  But we can’t very well seek them out individually.  The only
way is to make their employment unpleasant to their employers.  The
thing’s becoming indecent.  And dangerous too, for us, here.”

Mr Vladimir stopped again for a moment.

“What do you mean?”

“The prosecution of this Verloc will demonstrate to the public both the
danger and the indecency.”

“Nobody will believe what a man of that sort says,” said Mr Vladimir
contemptuously.

“The wealth and precision of detail will carry conviction to the great
mass of the public,” advanced the Assistant Commissioner gently.

“So that is seriously what you mean to do.”

“We’ve got the man; we have no choice.”

“You will be only feeding up the lying spirit of these revolutionary
scoundrels,” Mr Vladimir protested.  “What do you want to make a scandal
for?—from morality—or what?”

