Mr Vladimir’s anxiety was obvious.  The Assistant Commissioner having
ascertained in this way that there must be some truth in the summary
statements of Mr Verloc, said indifferently:

“There’s a practical side too.  We have really enough to do to look after
the genuine article.  You can’t say we are not effective.  But we don’t
intend to let ourselves be bothered by shams under any pretext whatever.”

Mr Vladimir’s tone became lofty.

“For my part, I can’t share your view.  It is selfish.  My sentiments for
my own country cannot be doubted; but I’ve always felt that we ought to
be good Europeans besides—I mean governments and men.”

“Yes,” said the Assistant Commissioner simply.  “Only you look at Europe
from its other end.  But,” he went on in a good-natured tone, “the
foreign governments cannot complain of the inefficiency of our police.
Look at this outrage; a case specially difficult to trace inasmuch as it
was a sham.  In less than twelve hours we have established the identity
of a man literally blown to shreds, have found the organiser of the
attempt, and have had a glimpse of the inciter behind him.  And we could
have gone further; only we stopped at the limits of our territory.”

“So this instructive crime was planned abroad,” Mr Vladimir said quickly.
“You admit it was planned abroad?”

“Theoretically.  Theoretically only, on foreign territory; abroad only by
a fiction,” said the Assistant Commissioner, alluding to the character of
Embassies, which are supposed to be part and parcel of the country to
which they belong.  “But that’s a detail.  I talked to you of this
business because it’s your government that grumbles most at our police.
You see that we are not so bad.  I wanted particularly to tell you of our
success.”

“I’m sure I’m very grateful,” muttered Mr Vladimir through his teeth.

“We can put our finger on every anarchist here,” went on the Assistant
Commissioner, as though he were quoting Chief Inspector Heat.  “All
that’s wanted now is to do away with the agent provocateur to make
everything safe.”

