His appetite did not proceed from callousness.  Mr Verloc had not eaten
any breakfast that day.  He had left his home fasting.  Not being an
energetic man, he found his resolution in nervous excitement, which
seemed to hold him mainly by the throat.  He could not have swallowed
anything solid.  Michaelis’ cottage was as destitute of provisions as the
cell of a prisoner.  The ticket-of-leave apostle lived on a little milk
and crusts of stale bread.  Moreover, when Mr Verloc arrived he had
already gone upstairs after his frugal meal.  Absorbed in the toil and
delight of literary composition, he had not even answered Mr Verloc’s
shout up the little staircase.

“I am taking this young fellow home for a day or two.”

And, in truth, Mr Verloc did not wait for an answer, but had marched out
of the cottage at once, followed by the obedient Stevie.

Now that all action was over and his fate taken out of his hands with
unexpected swiftness, Mr Verloc felt terribly empty physically.  He
carved the meat, cut the bread, and devoured his supper standing by the
table, and now and then casting a glance towards his wife.  Her prolonged
immobility disturbed the comfort of his refection.  He walked again into
the shop, and came up very close to her.  This sorrow with a veiled face
made Mr Verloc uneasy.  He expected, of course, his wife to be very much
upset, but he wanted her to pull herself together.  He needed all her
assistance and all her loyalty in these new conjunctures his fatalism had
already accepted.

“Can’t be helped,” he said in a tone of gloomy sympathy.  “Come, Winnie,
we’ve got to think of to-morrow.  You’ll want all your wits about you
after I am taken away.”

He paused.  Mrs Verloc’s breast heaved convulsively.  This was not
reassuring to Mr Verloc, in whose view the newly created situation
required from the two people most concerned in it calmness, decision, and
other qualities incompatible with the mental disorder of passionate
sorrow.  Mr Verloc was a humane man; he had come home prepared to allow
every latitude to his wife’s affection for her brother.

