Only he did not understand either the nature or the whole extent of that
sentiment.  And in this he was excusable, since it was impossible for him
to understand it without ceasing to be himself.  He was startled and
disappointed, and his speech conveyed it by a certain roughness of tone.

“You might look at a fellow,” he observed after waiting a while.

As if forced through the hands covering Mrs Verloc’s face the answer
came, deadened, almost pitiful.

“I don’t want to look at you as long as I live.”

“Eh?  What!”  Mr Verloc was merely startled by the superficial and
literal meaning of this declaration.  It was obviously unreasonable, the
mere cry of exaggerated grief.  He threw over it the mantle of his
marital indulgence.  The mind of Mr Verloc lacked profundity.  Under the
mistaken impression that the value of individuals consists in what they
are in themselves, he could not possibly comprehend the value of Stevie
in the eyes of Mrs Verloc.  She was taking it confoundedly hard, he
thought to himself.  It was all the fault of that damned Heat.  What did
he want to upset the woman for?  But she mustn’t be allowed, for her own
good, to carry on so till she got quite beside herself.

“Look here!  You can’t sit like this in the shop,” he said with affected
severity, in which there was some real annoyance; for urgent practical
matters must be talked over if they had to sit up all night.  “Somebody
might come in at any minute,” he added, and waited again.  No effect was
produced, and the idea of the finality of death occurred to Mr Verloc
during the pause.  He changed his tone.  “Come.  This won’t bring him
back,” he said gently, feeling ready to take her in his arms and press
her to his breast, where impatience and compassion dwelt side by side.
But except for a short shudder Mrs Verloc remained apparently unaffected
by the force of that terrible truism.  It was Mr Verloc himself who was
moved.  He was moved in his simplicity to urge moderation by asserting
the claims of his own personality.

