“Do be reasonable, Winnie.  What would it have been if you had lost me!”

He had vaguely expected to hear her cry out.  But she did not budge.  She
leaned back a little, quieted down to a complete unreadable stillness.
Mr Verloc’s heart began to beat faster with exasperation and something
resembling alarm.  He laid his hand on her shoulder, saying:

“Don’t be a fool, Winnie.”

She gave no sign.  It was impossible to talk to any purpose with a woman
whose face one cannot see.  Mr Verloc caught hold of his wife’s wrists.
But her hands seemed glued fast.  She swayed forward bodily to his tug,
and nearly went off the chair.  Startled to feel her so helplessly limp,
he was trying to put her back on the chair when she stiffened suddenly
all over, tore herself out of his hands, ran out of the shop, across the
parlour, and into the kitchen.  This was very swift.  He had just a
glimpse of her face and that much of her eyes that he knew she had not
looked at him.

It all had the appearance of a struggle for the possession of a chair,
because Mr Verloc instantly took his wife’s place in it.  Mr Verloc did
not cover his face with his hands, but a sombre thoughtfulness veiled his
features.  A term of imprisonment could not be avoided.  He did not wish
now to avoid it.  A prison was a place as safe from certain unlawful
vengeances as the grave, with this advantage, that in a prison there is
room for hope.  What he saw before him was a term of imprisonment, an
early release and then life abroad somewhere, such as he had contemplated
already, in case of failure.  Well, it was a failure, if not exactly the
sort of failure he had feared.  It had been so near success that he could
have positively terrified Mr Vladimir out of his ferocious scoffing with
this proof of occult efficiency.  So at least it seemed now to Mr Verloc.
His prestige with the Embassy would have been immense if—if his wife had
not had the unlucky notion of sewing on the address inside Stevie’s
overcoat.  Mr Verloc, who was no fool, had soon perceived the
extraordinary character of the influence he had over Stevie, though he
did not understand exactly its origin—the doctrine of his supreme wisdom
and goodness inculcated by two anxious women.  In all the eventualities
he had foreseen Mr Verloc had calculated with correct insight on Stevie’s
instinctive loyalty and blind discretion.  The eventuality he had not
foreseen had appalled him as a humane man and a fond husband.  From every
other point of view it was rather advantageous.  Nothing can equal the
everlasting discretion of death.  Mr Verloc, sitting perplexed and
frightened in the small parlour of the Cheshire Cheese, could not help
acknowledging that to himself, because his sensibility did not stand in
the way of his judgment.  Stevie’s violent disintegration, however
disturbing to think about, only assured the success; for, of course, the
knocking down of a wall was not the aim of Mr Vladimir’s menaces, but the
production of a moral effect.  With much trouble and distress on Mr
Verloc’s part the effect might be said to have been produced.  When,
however, most unexpectedly, it came home to roost in Brett Street, Mr
Verloc, who had been struggling like a man in a nightmare for the
preservation of his position, accepted the blow in the spirit of a
convinced fatalist.  The position was gone through no one’s fault really.
A small, tiny fact had done it.  It was like slipping on a bit of orange
peel in the dark and breaking your leg.

