Curiosity being one of the forms of self-revelation, a systematically
incurious person remains always partly mysterious.  Every time he passed
near the door Mr Verloc glanced at his wife uneasily.  It was not that he
was afraid of her.  Mr Verloc imagined himself loved by that woman.  But
she had not accustomed him to make confidences.  And the confidence he
had to make was of a profound psychological order.  How with his want of
practice could he tell her what he himself felt but vaguely: that there
are conspiracies of fatal destiny, that a notion grows in a mind
sometimes till it acquires an outward existence, an independent power of
its own, and even a suggestive voice?  He could not inform her that a man
may be haunted by a fat, witty, clean-shaved face till the wildest
expedient to get rid of it appears a child of wisdom.

On this mental reference to a First Secretary of a great Embassy, Mr
Verloc stopped in the doorway, and looking down into the kitchen with an
angry face and clenched fists, addressed his wife.

“You don’t know what a brute I had to deal with.”

He started off to make another perambulation of the table; then when he
had come to the door again he stopped, glaring in from the height of two
steps.

“A silly, jeering, dangerous brute, with no more sense than—After all
these years!  A man like me!  And I have been playing my head at that
game.  You didn’t know.  Quite right, too.  What was the good of telling
you that I stood the risk of having a knife stuck into me any time these
seven years we’ve been married?  I am not a chap to worry a woman that’s
fond of me.  You had no business to know.”  Mr Verloc took another turn
round the parlour, fuming.

“A venomous beast,” he began again from the doorway.  “Drive me out into
a ditch to starve for a joke.  I could see he thought it was a damned
good joke.  A man like me!  Look here!  Some of the highest in the world
got to thank me for walking on their two legs to this day.  That’s the
man you’ve got married to, my girl!”

