A few seconds only had elapsed since the last word had been uttered aloud
in the kitchen, and Mrs Verloc was staring already at the vision of an
episode not more than a fortnight old.  With eyes whose pupils were
extremely dilated she stared at the vision of her husband and poor Stevie
walking up Brett Street side by side away from the shop.  It was the last
scene of an existence created by Mrs Verloc’s genius; an existence
foreign to all grace and charm, without beauty and almost without
decency, but admirable in the continuity of feeling and tenacity of
purpose.  And this last vision had such plastic relief, such nearness of
form, such a fidelity of suggestive detail, that it wrung from Mrs Verloc
an anguished and faint murmur, reproducing the supreme illusion of her
life, an appalled murmur that died out on her blanched lips.

“Might have been father and son.”

Mr Verloc stopped, and raised a care-worn face.  “Eh?  What did you say?”
he asked.  Receiving no reply, he resumed his sinister tramping.  Then
with a menacing flourish of a thick, fleshy fist, he burst out:

“Yes.  The Embassy people.  A pretty lot, ain’t they!  Before a week’s
out I’ll make some of them wish themselves twenty feet underground.  Eh?
What?”

He glanced sideways, with his head down.  Mrs Verloc gazed at the
whitewashed wall.  A blank wall—perfectly blank.  A blankness to run at
and dash your head against.  Mrs Verloc remained immovably seated.  She
kept still as the population of half the globe would keep still in
astonishment and despair, were the sun suddenly put out in the summer sky
by the perfidy of a trusted providence.

“The Embassy,” Mr Verloc began again, after a preliminary grimace which
bared his teeth wolfishly.  “I wish I could get loose in there with a
cudgel for half-an-hour.  I would keep on hitting till there wasn’t a
single unbroken bone left amongst the whole lot.  But never mind, I’ll
teach them yet what it means trying to throw out a man like me to rot in
the streets.  I’ve a tongue in my head.  All the world shall know what
I’ve done for them.  I am not afraid.  I don’t care.  Everything’ll come
out.  Every damned thing.  Let them look out!”

