In sincerity of feeling and openness of statement, these words went far
beyond anything that had ever been said in this home, kept up on the
wages of a secret industry eked out by the sale of more or less secret
wares: the poor expedients devised by a mediocre mankind for preserving
an imperfect society from the dangers of moral and physical corruption,
both secret too of their kind.  They were spoken because Mr Verloc had
felt himself really outraged; but the reticent decencies of this home
life, nestling in a shady street behind a shop where the sun never shone,
remained apparently undisturbed.  Mrs Verloc heard him out with perfect
propriety, and then rose from her chair in her hat and jacket like a
visitor at the end of a call.  She advanced towards her husband, one arm
extended as if for a silent leave-taking.  Her net veil dangling down by
one end on the left side of her face gave an air of disorderly formality
to her restrained movements.  But when she arrived as far as the
hearthrug, Mr Verloc was no longer standing there.  He had moved off in
the direction of the sofa, without raising his eyes to watch the effect
of his tirade.  He was tired, resigned in a truly marital spirit.  But he
felt hurt in the tender spot of his secret weakness.  If she would go on
sulking in that dreadful overcharged silence—why then she must.  She was
a master in that domestic art.  Mr Verloc flung himself heavily upon the
sofa, disregarding as usual the fate of his hat, which, as if accustomed
to take care of itself, made for a safe shelter under the table.

He was tired.  The last particle of his nervous force had been expended
in the wonders and agonies of this day full of surprising failures coming
at the end of a harassing month of scheming and insomnia.  He was tired.
A man isn’t made of stone.  Hang everything!  Mr Verloc reposed
characteristically, clad in his outdoor garments.  One side of his open
overcoat was lying partly on the ground.  Mr Verloc wallowed on his back.
But he longed for a more perfect rest—for sleep—for a few hours of
delicious forgetfulness.  That would come later.  Provisionally he
rested.  And he thought: “I wish she would give over this damned
nonsense.  It’s exasperating.”

