Her face was no longer stony.  Anybody could have noted the subtle change
on her features, in the stare of her eyes, giving her a new and startling
expression; an expression seldom observed by competent persons under the
conditions of leisure and security demanded for thorough analysis, but
whose meaning could not be mistaken at a glance.  Mrs Verloc’s doubts as
to the end of the bargain no longer existed; her wits, no longer
disconnected, were working under the control of her will.  But Mr Verloc
observed nothing.  He was reposing in that pathetic condition of optimism
induced by excess of fatigue.  He did not want any more trouble—with his
wife too—of all people in the world.  He had been unanswerable in his
vindication.  He was loved for himself.  The present phase of her silence
he interpreted favourably.  This was the time to make it up with her.
The silence had lasted long enough.  He broke it by calling to her in an
undertone.

“Winnie.”

“Yes,” answered obediently Mrs Verloc the free woman.  She commanded her
wits now, her vocal organs; she felt herself to be in an almost
preternaturally perfect control of every fibre of her body.  It was all
her own, because the bargain was at an end.  She was clear sighted.  She
had become cunning.  She chose to answer him so readily for a purpose.
She did not wish that man to change his position on the sofa which was
very suitable to the circumstances.  She succeeded.  The man did not
stir.  But after answering him she remained leaning negligently against
the mantelpiece in the attitude of a resting wayfarer.  She was
unhurried.  Her brow was smooth.  The head and shoulders of Mr Verloc
were hidden from her by the high side of the sofa.  She kept her eyes
fixed on his feet.

She remained thus mysteriously still and suddenly collected till Mr
Verloc was heard with an accent of marital authority, and moving slightly
to make room for her to sit on the edge of the sofa.

“Come here,” he said in a peculiar tone, which might have been the tone
of brutality, but was intimately known to Mrs Verloc as the note of
wooing.

