She started forward at once, as if she were still a loyal woman bound to
that man by an unbroken contract.  Her right hand skimmed slightly the
end of the table, and when she had passed on towards the sofa the carving
knife had vanished without the slightest sound from the side of the dish.
Mr Verloc heard the creaky plank in the floor, and was content.  He
waited.  Mrs Verloc was coming.  As if the homeless soul of Stevie had
flown for shelter straight to the breast of his sister, guardian and
protector, the resemblance of her face with that of her brother grew at
every step, even to the droop of the lower lip, even to the slight
divergence of the eyes.  But Mr Verloc did not see that.  He was lying on
his back and staring upwards.  He saw partly on the ceiling and partly on
the wall the moving shadow of an arm with a clenched hand holding a
carving knife.  It flickered up and down.  Its movements were leisurely.
They were leisurely enough for Mr Verloc to recognise the limb and the
weapon.

They were leisurely enough for him to take in the full meaning of the
portent, and to taste the flavour of death rising in his gorge.  His wife
had gone raving mad—murdering mad.  They were leisurely enough for the
first paralysing effect of this discovery to pass away before a resolute
determination to come out victorious from the ghastly struggle with that
armed lunatic.  They were leisurely enough for Mr Verloc to elaborate a
plan of defence involving a dash behind the table, and the felling of the
woman to the ground with a heavy wooden chair.  But they were not
leisurely enough to allow Mr Verloc the time to move either hand or foot.
The knife was already planted in his breast.  It met no resistance on its
way.  Hazard has such accuracies.  Into that plunging blow, delivered
over the side of the couch, Mrs Verloc had put all the inheritance of her
immemorial and obscure descent, the simple ferocity of the age of
caverns, and the unbalanced nervous fury of the age of bar-rooms.  Mr
Verloc, the Secret Agent, turning slightly on his side with the force of
the blow, expired without stirring a limb, in the muttered sound of the
word “Don’t” by way of protest.

