Mrs Verloc had let go the knife, and her extraordinary resemblance to her
late brother had faded, had become very ordinary now.  She drew a deep
breath, the first easy breath since Chief Inspector Heat had exhibited to
her the labelled piece of Stevie’s overcoat.  She leaned forward on her
folded arms over the side of the sofa.  She adopted that easy attitude
not in order to watch or gloat over the body of Mr Verloc, but because of
the undulatory and swinging movements of the parlour, which for some time
behaved as though it were at sea in a tempest.  She was giddy but calm.
She had become a free woman with a perfection of freedom which left her
nothing to desire and absolutely nothing to do, since Stevie’s urgent
claim on her devotion no longer existed.  Mrs Verloc, who thought in
images, was not troubled now by visions, because she did not think at
all.  And she did not move.  She was a woman enjoying her complete
irresponsibility and endless leisure, almost in the manner of a corpse.
She did not move, she did not think.  Neither did the mortal envelope of
the late Mr Verloc reposing on the sofa.  Except for the fact that Mrs
Verloc breathed these two would have been perfect in accord: that accord
of prudent reserve without superfluous words, and sparing of signs, which
had been the foundation of their respectable home life.  For it had been
respectable, covering by a decent reticence the problems that may arise
in the practice of a secret profession and the commerce of shady wares.
To the last its decorum had remained undisturbed by unseemly shrieks and
other misplaced sincerities of conduct.  And after the striking of the
blow, this respectability was continued in immobility and silence.

Nothing moved in the parlour till Mrs Verloc raised her head slowly and
looked at the clock with inquiring mistrust.  She had become aware of a
ticking sound in the room.  It grew upon her ear, while she remembered
clearly that the clock on the wall was silent, had no audible tick.  What
did it mean by beginning to tick so loudly all of a sudden?  Its face
indicated ten minutes to nine.  Mrs Verloc cared nothing for time, and
the ticking went on.  She concluded it could not be the clock, and her
sullen gaze moved along the walls, wavered, and became vague, while she
strained her hearing to locate the sound.  Tic, tic, tic.

