After listening for some time Mrs Verloc lowered her gaze deliberately on
her husband’s body.  Its attitude of repose was so home-like and familiar
that she could do so without feeling embarrassed by any pronounced
novelty in the phenomena of her home life.  Mr Verloc was taking his
habitual ease.  He looked comfortable.

By the position of the body the face of Mr Verloc was not visible to Mrs
Verloc, his widow.  Her fine, sleepy eyes, travelling downward on the
track of the sound, became contemplative on meeting a flat object of bone
which protruded a little beyond the edge of the sofa.  It was the handle
of the domestic carving knife with nothing strange about it but its
position at right angles to Mr Verloc’s waistcoat and the fact that
something dripped from it.  Dark drops fell on the floorcloth one after
another, with a sound of ticking growing fast and furious like the pulse
of an insane clock.  At its highest speed this ticking changed into a
continuous sound of trickling.  Mrs Verloc watched that transformation
with shadows of anxiety coming and going on her face.  It was a trickle,
dark, swift, thin. . . . Blood!

At this unforeseen circumstance Mrs Verloc abandoned her pose of idleness
and irresponsibility.

With a sudden snatch at her skirts and a faint shriek she ran to the
door, as if the trickle had been the first sign of a destroying flood.
Finding the table in her way she gave it a push with both hands as though
it had been alive, with such force that it went for some distance on its
four legs, making a loud, scraping racket, whilst the big dish with the
joint crashed heavily on the floor.

Then all became still.  Mrs Verloc on reaching the door had stopped.  A
round hat disclosed in the middle of the floor by the moving of the table
rocked slightly on its crown in the wind of her flight.




CHAPTER XII


Winnie Verloc, the widow of Mr Verloc, the sister of the late faithful
Stevie (blown to fragments in a state of innocence and in the conviction
of being engaged in a humanitarian enterprise), did not run beyond the
door of the parlour.  She had indeed run away so far from a mere trickle
of blood, but that was a movement of instinctive repulsion.  And there
she had paused, with staring eyes and lowered head.  As though she had
run through long years in her flight across the small parlour, Mrs Verloc
by the door was quite a different person from the woman who had been
leaning over the sofa, a little swimmy in her head, but otherwise free to
enjoy the profound calm of idleness and irresponsibility.  Mrs Verloc was
no longer giddy.  Her head was steady.  On the other hand, she was no
longer calm.  She was afraid.

