If she avoided looking in the direction of her reposing husband it was
not because she was afraid of him.  Mr Verloc was not frightful to
behold.  He looked comfortable.  Moreover, he was dead.  Mrs Verloc
entertained no vain delusions on the subject of the dead.  Nothing brings
them back, neither love nor hate.  They can do nothing to you.  They are
as nothing.  Her mental state was tinged by a sort of austere contempt
for that man who had let himself be killed so easily.  He had been the
master of a house, the husband of a woman, and the murderer of her
Stevie.  And now he was of no account in every respect.  He was of less
practical account than the clothing on his body, than his overcoat, than
his boots—than that hat lying on the floor.  He was nothing.  He was not
worth looking at.  He was even no longer the murderer of poor Stevie.
The only murderer that would be found in the room when people came to
look for Mr Verloc would be—herself!

Her hands shook so that she failed twice in the task of refastening her
veil.  Mrs Verloc was no longer a person of leisure and responsibility.
She was afraid.  The stabbing of Mr Verloc had been only a blow.  It had
relieved the pent-up agony of shrieks strangled in her throat, of tears
dried up in her hot eyes, of the maddening and indignant rage at the
atrocious part played by that man, who was less than nothing now, in
robbing her of the boy.

It had been an obscurely prompted blow.  The blood trickling on the floor
off the handle of the knife had turned it into an extremely plain case of
murder.  Mrs Verloc, who always refrained from looking deep into things,
was compelled to look into the very bottom of this thing.  She saw there
no haunting face, no reproachful shade, no vision of remorse, no sort of
ideal conception.  She saw there an object.  That object was the gallows.
Mrs Verloc was afraid of the gallows.

She was terrified of them ideally.  Having never set eyes on that last
argument of men’s justice except in illustrative woodcuts to a certain
type of tales, she first saw them erect against a black and stormy
background, festooned with chains and human bones, circled about by birds
that peck at dead men’s eyes.  This was frightful enough, but Mrs Verloc,
though not a well-informed woman, had a sufficient knowledge of the
institutions of her country to know that gallows are no longer erected
romantically on the banks of dismal rivers or on wind-swept headlands,
but in the yards of jails.  There within four high walls, as if into a
pit, at dawn of day, the murderer was brought out to be executed, with a
horrible quietness and, as the reports in the newspapers always said, “in
the presence of the authorities.”  With her eyes staring on the floor,
her nostrils quivering with anguish and shame, she imagined herself all
alone amongst a lot of strange gentlemen in silk hats who were calmly
proceeding about the business of hanging her by the neck.  That—never!
Never!  And how was it done?  The impossibility of imagining the details
of such quiet execution added something maddening to her abstract terror.
The newspapers never gave any details except one, but that one with some
affectation was always there at the end of a meagre report.  Mrs Verloc
remembered its nature.  It came with a cruel burning pain into her head,
as if the words “The drop given was fourteen feet” had been scratched on
her brain with a hot needle.  “The drop given was fourteen feet.”

