“Mrs Verloc!” he exclaimed.  “You here!”

It seemed impossible to him that she should have been drinking.  But one
never knows.  He did not go into that question, but attentive not to
discourage kind fate surrendering to him the widow of Comrade Verloc, he
tried to draw her to his breast.  To his astonishment she came quite
easily, and even rested on his arm for a moment before she attempted to
disengage herself.  Comrade Ossipon would not be brusque with kind fate.
He withdrew his arm in a natural way.

“You recognised me,” she faltered out, standing before him, fairly steady
on her legs.

“Of course I did,” said Ossipon with perfect readiness.  “I was afraid
you were going to fall.  I’ve thought of you too often lately not to
recognise you anywhere, at any time.  I’ve always thought of you—ever
since I first set eyes on you.”

Mrs Verloc seemed not to hear.  “You were coming to the shop?” she said
nervously.

“Yes; at once,” answered Ossipon.  “Directly I read the paper.”

In fact, Comrade Ossipon had been skulking for a good two hours in the
neighbourhood of Brett Street, unable to make up his mind for a bold
move.  The robust anarchist was not exactly a bold conqueror.  He
remembered that Mrs Verloc had never responded to his glances by the
slightest sign of encouragement.  Besides, he thought the shop might be
watched by the police, and Comrade Ossipon did not wish the police to
form an exaggerated notion of his revolutionary sympathies.  Even now he
did not know precisely what to do.  In comparison with his usual amatory
speculations this was a big and serious undertaking.  He ignored how much
there was in it and how far he would have to go in order to get hold of
what there was to get—supposing there was a chance at all.  These
perplexities checking his elation imparted to his tone a soberness well
in keeping with the circumstances.

“May I ask you where you were going?” he inquired in a subdued voice.

“Don’t ask me!” cried Mrs Verloc with a shuddering, repressed violence.
All her strong vitality recoiled from the idea of death.  “Never mind
where I was going. . . .”

