Ossipon concluded that she was very much excited but perfectly sober.
She remained silent by his side for moment, then all at once she did
something which he did not expect.  She slipped her hand under his arm.
He was startled by the act itself certainly, and quite as much too by the
palpably resolute character of this movement.  But this being a delicate
affair, Comrade Ossipon behaved with delicacy.  He contented himself by
pressing the hand slightly against his robust ribs.  At the same time he
felt himself being impelled forward, and yielded to the impulse.  At the
end of Brett Street he became aware of being directed to the left.  He
submitted.

The fruiterer at the corner had put out the blazing glory of his oranges
and lemons, and Brett Place was all darkness, interspersed with the misty
halos of the few lamps defining its triangular shape, with a cluster of
three lights on one stand in the middle.  The dark forms of the man and
woman glided slowly arm in arm along the walls with a loverlike and
homeless aspect in the miserable night.

“What would you say if I were to tell you that I was going to find you?”
Mrs Verloc asked, gripping his arm with force.

“I would say that you couldn’t find anyone more ready to help you in your
trouble,” answered Ossipon, with a notion of making tremendous headway.
In fact, the progress of this delicate affair was almost taking his
breath away.

“In my trouble!” Mrs Verloc repeated slowly.

“Yes.”

“And do you know what my trouble is?” she whispered with strange
intensity.

“Ten minutes after seeing the evening paper,” explained Ossipon with
ardour, “I met a fellow whom you may have seen once or twice at the shop
perhaps, and I had a talk with him which left no doubt whatever in my
mind.  Then I started for here, wondering whether you—I’ve been fond of
you beyond words ever since I set eyes on your face,” he cried, as if
unable to command his feelings.

Comrade Ossipon assumed correctly that no woman was capable of wholly
disbelieving such a statement.  But he did not know that Mrs Verloc
accepted it with all the fierceness the instinct of self-preservation
puts into the grip of a drowning person.  To the widow of Mr Verloc the
robust anarchist was like a radiant messenger of life.

