They walked slowly, in step.  “I thought so,” Mrs Verloc murmured
faintly.

“You’ve read it in my eyes,” suggested Ossipon with great assurance.

“Yes,” she breathed out into his inclined ear.

“A love like mine could not be concealed from a woman like you,” he went
on, trying to detach his mind from material considerations such as the
business value of the shop, and the amount of money Mr Verloc might have
left in the bank.  He applied himself to the sentimental side of the
affair.  In his heart of hearts he was a little shocked at his success.
Verloc had been a good fellow, and certainly a very decent husband as far
as one could see.  However, Comrade Ossipon was not going to quarrel with
his luck for the sake of a dead man.  Resolutely he suppressed his
sympathy for the ghost of Comrade Verloc, and went on.

“I could not conceal it.  I was too full of you.  I daresay you could not
help seeing it in my eyes.  But I could not guess it.  You were always so
distant. . . .”

“What else did you expect?” burst out Mrs Verloc.  “I was a respectable
woman—”

She paused, then added, as if speaking to herself, in sinister
resentment: “Till he made me what I am.”

Ossipon let that pass, and took up his running.  “He never did seem to me
to be quite worthy of you,” he began, throwing loyalty to the winds.
“You were worthy of a better fate.”

Mrs Verloc interrupted bitterly:

“Better fate!  He cheated me out of seven years of life.”

“You seemed to live so happily with him.”  Ossipon tried to exculpate the
lukewarmness of his past conduct.  “It’s that what’s made me timid.  You
seemed to love him.  I was surprised—and jealous,” he added.

“Love him!” Mrs Verloc cried out in a whisper, full of scorn and rage.
“Love him!  I was a good wife to him.  I am a respectable woman.  You
thought I loved him!  You did!  Look here, Tom—”

The sound of this name thrilled Comrade Ossipon with pride.  For his name
was Alexander, and he was called Tom by arrangement with the most
familiar of his intimates.  It was a name of friendship—of moments of
expansion.  He had no idea that she had ever heard it used by anybody.
It was apparent that she had not only caught it, but had treasured it in
her memory—perhaps in her heart.

