“Look here, Tom!  I was a young girl.  I was done up.  I was tired.  I
had two people depending on what I could do, and it did seem as if I
couldn’t do any more.  Two people—mother and the boy.  He was much more
mine than mother’s.  I sat up nights and nights with him on my lap, all
alone upstairs, when I wasn’t more than eight years old myself.  And
then—He was mine, I tell you. . . . You can’t understand that.  No man
can understand it.  What was I to do?  There was a young fellow—”

The memory of the early romance with the young butcher survived,
tenacious, like the image of a glimpsed ideal in that heart quailing
before the fear of the gallows and full of revolt against death.

“That was the man I loved then,” went on the widow of Mr Verloc.  “I
suppose he could see it in my eyes too.  Five and twenty shillings a
week, and his father threatened to kick him out of the business if he
made such a fool of himself as to marry a girl with a crippled mother and
a crazy idiot of a boy on her hands.  But he would hang about me, till
one evening I found the courage to slam the door in his face.  I had to
do it.  I loved him dearly.  Five and twenty shillings a week!  There was
that other man—a good lodger.  What is a girl to do?  Could I’ve gone on
the streets?  He seemed kind.  He wanted me, anyhow.  What was I to do
with mother and that poor boy?  Eh?  I said yes.  He seemed good-natured,
he was freehanded, he had money, he never said anything.  Seven
years—seven years a good wife to him, the kind, the good, the generous,
the—And he loved me.  Oh yes.  He loved me till I sometimes wished
myself—Seven years.  Seven years a wife to him.  And do you know what he
was, that dear friend of yours?  Do you know what he was?  He was a
devil!”

The superhuman vehemence of that whispered statement completely stunned
Comrade Ossipon.  Winnie Verloc turning about held him by both arms,
facing him under the falling mist in the darkness and solitude of Brett
Place, in which all sounds of life seemed lost as if in a triangular well
of asphalt and bricks, of blind houses and unfeeling stones.

