“No; I didn’t know,” he declared, with a sort of flabby stupidity, whose
comical aspect was lost upon a woman haunted by the fear of the gallows,
“but I do now.  I—I understand,” he floundered on, his mind speculating
as to what sort of atrocities Verloc could have practised under the
sleepy, placid appearances of his married estate.  It was positively
awful.  “I understand,” he repeated, and then by a sudden inspiration
uttered an—“Unhappy woman!” of lofty commiseration instead of the more
familiar “Poor darling!” of his usual practice.  This was no usual case.
He felt conscious of something abnormal going on, while he never lost
sight of the greatness of the stake.  “Unhappy, brave woman!”

He was glad to have discovered that variation; but he could discover
nothing else.

“Ah, but he is dead now,” was the best he could do.  And he put a
remarkable amount of animosity into his guarded exclamation.  Mrs Verloc
caught at his arm with a sort of frenzy.

“You guessed then he was dead,” she murmured, as if beside herself.
“You!  You guessed what I had to do.  Had to!”

There were suggestions of triumph, relief, gratitude in the indefinable
tone of these words.  It engrossed the whole attention of Ossipon to the
detriment of mere literal sense.  He wondered what was up with her, why
she had worked herself into this state of wild excitement.  He even began
to wonder whether the hidden causes of that Greenwich Park affair did not
lie deep in the unhappy circumstances of the Verlocs’ married life.  He
went so far as to suspect Mr Verloc of having selected that extraordinary
manner of committing suicide.  By Jove! that would account for the utter
inanity and wrong-headedness of the thing.  No anarchist manifestation
was required by the circumstances.  Quite the contrary; and Verloc was as
well aware of that as any other revolutionist of his standing.  What an
immense joke if Verloc had simply made fools of the whole of Europe, of
the revolutionary world, of the police, of the press, and of the cocksure
Professor as well.  Indeed, thought Ossipon, in astonishment, it seemed
almost certain that he did!  Poor beggar!  It struck him as very possible
that of that household of two it wasn’t precisely the man who was the
devil.

