“From Waterloo.  Plenty of time.  We are all right after all. . . .
What’s the matter now?  This isn’t the way,” he protested.

Mrs Verloc, having hooked her arm into his, was trying to drag him into
Brett Street again.

“I’ve forgotten to shut the shop door as I went out,” she whispered,
terribly agitated.

The shop and all that was in it had ceased to interest Comrade Ossipon.
He knew how to limit his desires.  He was on the point of saying “What of
that?  Let it be,” but he refrained.  He disliked argument about trifles.
He even mended his pace considerably on the thought that she might have
left the money in the drawer.  But his willingness lagged behind her
feverish impatience.

The shop seemed to be quite dark at first.  The door stood ajar.  Mrs
Verloc, leaning against the front, gasped out:

“Nobody has been in.  Look!  The light—the light in the parlour.”

Ossipon, stretching his head forward, saw a faint gleam in the darkness
of the shop.

“There is,” he said.

“I forgot it.” Mrs Verloc’s voice came from behind her veil faintly.  And
as he stood waiting for her to enter first, she said louder: “Go in and
put it out—or I’ll go mad.”

He made no immediate objection to this proposal, so strangely motived.
“Where’s all that money?” he asked.

“On me!  Go, Tom.  Quick!  Put it out. . . . Go in!” she cried, seizing
him by both shoulders from behind.

Not prepared for a display of physical force, Comrade Ossipon stumbled
far into the shop before her push.  He was astonished at the strength of
the woman and scandalised by her proceedings.  But he did not retrace his
steps in order to remonstrate with her severely in the street.  He was
beginning to be disagreeably impressed by her fantastic behaviour.
Moreover, this or never was the time to humour the woman.  Comrade
Ossipon avoided easily the end of the counter, and approached calmly the
glazed door of the parlour.  The curtain over the panes being drawn back
a little he, by a very natural impulse, looked in, just as he made ready
to turn the handle.  He looked in without a thought, without intention,
without curiosity of any sort.  He looked in because he could not help
looking in.  He looked in, and discovered Mr Verloc reposing quietly on
the sofa.

