“If he comes in kill me—kill me, Tom.”

The constable moved away, flashing as he passed the light of his dark
lantern, merely for form’s sake, at the shop window.  For a moment longer
the man and the woman inside stood motionless, panting, breast to breast;
then her fingers came unlocked, her arms fell by her side slowly.
Ossipon leaned against the counter.  The robust anarchist wanted support
badly.  This was awful.  He was almost too disgusted for speech.  Yet he
managed to utter a plaintive thought, showing at least that he realised
his position.

“Only a couple of minutes later and you’d have made me blunder against
the fellow poking about here with his damned dark lantern.”

The widow of Mr Verloc, motionless in the middle of the shop, said
insistently:

“Go in and put that light out, Tom.  It will drive me crazy.”

She saw vaguely his vehement gesture of refusal.  Nothing in the world
would have induced Ossipon to go into the parlour.  He was not
superstitious, but there was too much blood on the floor; a beastly pool
of it all round the hat.  He judged he had been already far too near that
corpse for his peace of mind—for the safety of his neck, perhaps!

“At the meter then!  There.  Look.  In that corner.”

The robust form of Comrade Ossipon, striding brusque and shadowy across
the shop, squatted in a corner obediently; but this obedience was without
grace.  He fumbled nervously—and suddenly in the sound of a muttered
curse the light behind the glazed door flicked out to a gasping,
hysterical sigh of a woman.  Night, the inevitable reward of men’s
faithful labours on this earth, night had fallen on Mr Verloc, the tried
revolutionist—“one of the old lot”—the humble guardian of society; the
invaluable Secret Agent [delta] of Baron Stott-Wartenheim’s despatches; a
servant of law and order, faithful, trusted, accurate, admirable, with
perhaps one single amiable weakness: the idealistic belief in being loved
for himself.

Ossipon groped his way back through the stuffy atmosphere, as black as
ink now, to the counter.  The voice of Mrs Verloc, standing in the middle
of the shop, vibrated after him in that blackness with a desperate
protest.

