She moved a step forward in the darkness.  He was terrified at her.  He
would not have been surprised if she had suddenly produced another knife
destined for his breast.  He certainly would have made no resistance.  He
had really not enough fortitude in him just then to tell her to keep
back.  But he inquired in a cavernous, strange tone: “Was he asleep?”

“No,” she cried, and went on rapidly.  “He wasn’t.  Not he.  He had been
telling me that nothing could touch him.  After taking the boy away from
under my very eyes to kill him—the loving, innocent, harmless lad.  My
own, I tell you.  He was lying on the couch quite easy—after killing the
boy—my boy.  I would have gone on the streets to get out of his sight.
And he says to me like this: ‘Come here,’ after telling me I had helped
to kill the boy.  You hear, Tom?  He says like this: ‘Come here,’ after
taking my very heart out of me along with the boy to smash in the dirt.”

She ceased, then dreamily repeated twice: “Blood and dirt.  Blood and
dirt.”  A great light broke upon Comrade Ossipon.  It was that
half-witted lad then who had perished in the park.  And the fooling of
everybody all round appeared more complete than ever—colossal.  He
exclaimed scientifically, in the extremity of his astonishment: “The
degenerate—by heavens!”

“Come here.”  The voice of Mrs Verloc rose again.  “What did he think I
was made of?  Tell me, Tom.  Come here!  Me!  Like this!  I had been
looking at the knife, and I thought I would come then if he wanted me so
much.  Oh yes!  I came—for the last time. . . . With the knife.”

He was excessively terrified at her—the sister of the degenerate—a
degenerate herself of a murdering type . . . or else of the lying type.
Comrade Ossipon might have been said to be terrified scientifically in
addition to all other kinds of fear.  It was an immeasurable and
composite funk, which from its very excess gave him in the dark a false
appearance of calm and thoughtful deliberation.  For he moved and spoke
with difficulty, being as if half frozen in his will and mind—and no one
could see his ghastly face.  He felt half dead.

