The train was drawn up, with hardly anybody about its row of open doors.
Owing to the time of the year and to the abominable weather there were
hardly any passengers.  Mrs Verloc walked slowly along the line of empty
compartments till Ossipon touched her elbow from behind.

“In here.”

She got in, and he remained on the platform looking about.  She bent
forward, and in a whisper:

“What is it, Tom?  Is there any danger?  Wait a moment.  There’s the
guard.”

She saw him accost the man in uniform.  They talked for a while.  She
heard the guard say “Very well, sir,” and saw him touch his cap.  Then
Ossipon came back, saying: “I told him not to let anybody get into our
compartment.”

She was leaning forward on her seat.  “You think of everything. . . .
You’ll get me off, Tom?” she asked in a gust of anguish, lifting her veil
brusquely to look at her saviour.

She had uncovered a face like adamant.  And out of this face the eyes
looked on, big, dry, enlarged, lightless, burnt out like two black holes
in the white, shining globes.

“There is no danger,” he said, gazing into them with an earnestness
almost rapt, which to Mrs Verloc, flying from the gallows, seemed to be
full of force and tenderness.  This devotion deeply moved her—and the
adamantine face lost the stern rigidity of its terror.  Comrade Ossipon
gazed at it as no lover ever gazed at his mistress’s face.  Alexander
Ossipon, anarchist, nicknamed the Doctor, author of a medical (and
improper) pamphlet, late lecturer on the social aspects of hygiene to
working men’s clubs, was free from the trammels of conventional
morality—but he submitted to the rule of science.  He was scientific, and
he gazed scientifically at that woman, the sister of a degenerate, a
degenerate herself—of a murdering type.  He gazed at her, and invoked
Lombroso, as an Italian peasant recommends himself to his favourite
saint.  He gazed scientifically.  He gazed at her cheeks, at her nose, at
her eyes, at her ears. . . . Bad! . . . Fatal!  Mrs Verloc’s pale lips
parting, slightly relaxed under his passionately attentive gaze, he gazed
also at her teeth. . . . Not a doubt remained . . . a murdering type. . . .
If Comrade Ossipon did not recommend his terrified soul to Lombroso, it
was only because on scientific grounds he could not believe that he
carried about him such a thing as a soul.  But he had in him the
scientific spirit, which moved him to testify on the platform of a
railway station in nervous jerky phrases.

