“He was an extraordinary lad, that brother of yours.  Most interesting to
study.  A perfect type in a way.  Perfect!”

He spoke scientifically in his secret fear.  And Mrs Verloc, hearing
these words of commendation vouchsafed to her beloved dead, swayed
forward with a flicker of light in her sombre eyes, like a ray of
sunshine heralding a tempest of rain.

“He was that indeed,” she whispered softly, with quivering lips.  “You
took a lot of notice of him, Tom.  I loved you for it.”

“It’s almost incredible the resemblance there was between you two,”
pursued Ossipon, giving a voice to his abiding dread, and trying to
conceal his nervous, sickening impatience for the train to start.  “Yes;
he resembled you.”

These words were not especially touching or sympathetic.  But the fact of
that resemblance insisted upon was enough in itself to act upon her
emotions powerfully.  With a little faint cry, and throwing her arms out,
Mrs Verloc burst into tears at last.

Ossipon entered the carriage, hastily closed the door and looked out to
see the time by the station clock.  Eight minutes more.  For the first
three of these Mrs Verloc wept violently and helplessly without pause or
interruption.  Then she recovered somewhat, and sobbed gently in an
abundant fall of tears.  She tried to talk to her saviour, to the man who
was the messenger of life.

“Oh, Tom!  How could I fear to die after he was taken away from me so
cruelly!  How could I!  How could I be such a coward!”

She lamented aloud her love of life, that life without grace or charm,
and almost without decency, but of an exalted faithfulness of purpose,
even unto murder.  And, as often happens in the lament of poor humanity,
rich in suffering but indigent in words, the truth—the very cry of
truth—was found in a worn and artificial shape picked up somewhere among
the phrases of sham sentiment.

“How could I be so afraid of death!  Tom, I tried.  But I am afraid.  I
tried to do away with myself.  And I couldn’t.  Am I hard?  I suppose the
cup of horrors was not full enough for such as me.  Then when you came. . . . ”

