She paused.  Then in a gust of confidence and gratitude, “I will live all
my days for you, Tom!” she sobbed out.

“Go over into the other corner of the carriage, away from the platform,”
said Ossipon solicitously.  She let her saviour settle her comfortably,
and he watched the coming on of another crisis of weeping, still more
violent than the first.  He watched the symptoms with a sort of medical
air, as if counting seconds.  He heard the guard’s whistle at last.  An
involuntary contraction of the upper lip bared his teeth with all the
aspect of savage resolution as he felt the train beginning to move.  Mrs
Verloc heard and felt nothing, and Ossipon, her saviour, stood still.  He
felt the train roll quicker, rumbling heavily to the sound of the woman’s
loud sobs, and then crossing the carriage in two long strides he opened
the door deliberately, and leaped out.

He had leaped out at the very end of the platform; and such was his
determination in sticking to his desperate plan that he managed by a sort
of miracle, performed almost in the air, to slam to the door of the
carriage.  Only then did he find himself rolling head over heels like a
shot rabbit.  He was bruised, shaken, pale as death, and out of breath
when he got up.  But he was calm, and perfectly able to meet the excited
crowd of railway men who had gathered round him in a moment.  He
explained, in gentle and convincing tones, that his wife had started at a
moment’s notice for Brittany to her dying mother; that, of course, she
was greatly up-set, and he considerably concerned at her state; that he
was trying to cheer her up, and had absolutely failed to notice at first
that the train was moving out.  To the general exclamation, “Why didn’t
you go on to Southampton, then, sir?” he objected the inexperience of a
young sister-in-law left alone in the house with three small children,
and her alarm at his absence, the telegraph offices being closed.  He had
acted on impulse.  “But I don’t think I’ll ever try that again,” he
concluded; smiled all round; distributed some small change, and marched
without a limp out of the station.

