Outside, Comrade Ossipon, flush of safe banknotes as never before in his
life, refused the offer of a cab.

“I can walk,” he said, with a little friendly laugh to the civil driver.

He could walk.  He walked.  He crossed the bridge.  Later on the towers
of the Abbey saw in their massive immobility the yellow bush of his hair
passing under the lamps.  The lights of Victoria saw him too, and Sloane
Square, and the railings of the park.  And Comrade Ossipon once more
found himself on a bridge.  The river, a sinister marvel of still shadows
and flowing gleams mingling below in a black silence, arrested his
attention.  He stood looking over the parapet for a long time.  The clock
tower boomed a brazen blast above his drooping head.  He looked up at the
dial. . . . Half-past twelve of a wild night in the Channel.

And again Comrade Ossipon walked.  His robust form was seen that night in
distant parts of the enormous town slumbering monstrously on a carpet of
mud under a veil of raw mist.  It was seen crossing the streets without
life and sound, or diminishing in the interminable straight perspectives
of shadowy houses bordering empty roadways lined by strings of gas lamps.
He walked through Squares, Places, Ovals, Commons, through monotonous
streets with unknown names where the dust of humanity settles inert and
hopeless out of the stream of life.  He walked.  And suddenly turning
into a strip of a front garden with a mangy grass plot, he let himself
into a small grimy house with a latch-key he took out of his pocket.

He threw himself down on his bed all dressed, and lay still for a whole
quarter of an hour.  Then he sat up suddenly, drawing up his knees, and
clasping his legs.  The first dawn found him open-eyed, in that same
posture.  This man who could walk so long, so far, so aimlessly, without
showing a sign of fatigue, could also remain sitting still for hours
without stirring a limb or an eyelid.  But when the late sun sent its
rays into the room he unclasped his hands, and fell back on the pillow.
His eyes stared at the ceiling.  And suddenly they closed.  Comrade
Ossipon slept in the sunlight.

