


CHAPTER XIII


The enormous iron padlock on the doors of the wall cupboard was the only
object in the room on which the eye could rest without becoming afflicted
by the miserable unloveliness of forms and the poverty of material.
Unsaleable in the ordinary course of business on account of its noble
proportions, it had been ceded to the Professor for a few pence by a
marine dealer in the east of London.  The room was large, clean,
respectable, and poor with that poverty suggesting the starvation of
every human need except mere bread.  There was nothing on the walls but
the paper, an expanse of arsenical green, soiled with indelible smudges
here and there, and with stains resembling faded maps of uninhabited
continents.

At a deal table near a window sat Comrade Ossipon, holding his head
between his fists.  The Professor, dressed in his only suit of shoddy
tweeds, but flapping to and fro on the bare boards a pair of incredibly
dilapidated slippers, had thrust his hands deep into the overstrained
pockets of his jacket.  He was relating to his robust guest a visit he
had lately been paying to the Apostle Michaelis.  The Perfect Anarchist
had even been unbending a little.

“The fellow didn’t know anything of Verloc’s death.  Of course!  He never
looks at the newspapers.  They make him too sad, he says.  But never
mind.  I walked into his cottage.  Not a soul anywhere.  I had to shout
half-a-dozen times before he answered me.  I thought he was fast asleep
yet, in bed.  But not at all.  He had been writing his book for four
hours already.  He sat in that tiny cage in a litter of manuscript.
There was a half-eaten raw carrot on the table near him.  His breakfast.
He lives on a diet of raw carrots and a little milk now.”

“How does he look on it?” asked Comrade Ossipon listlessly.

“Angelic. . . . I picked up a handful of his pages from the floor.  The
poverty of reasoning is astonishing.  He has no logic.  He can’t think
consecutively.  But that’s nothing.  He has divided his biography into
three parts, entitled—‘Faith, Hope, Charity.’  He is elaborating now the
idea of a world planned out like an immense and nice hospital, with
gardens and flowers, in which the strong are to devote themselves to the
nursing of the weak.”

