And Comrade Ossipon raised his bowed head, beloved of various humble
women of these isles, Apollo-like in the sunniness of its bush of hair.

The Professor had grown restless meantime.  He rose.

“Stay,” said Ossipon hurriedly.  “Here, what do you know of madness and
despair?”

The Professor passed the tip of his tongue on his dry, thin lips, and
said doctorally:

“There are no such things.  All passion is lost now.  The world is
mediocre, limp, without force.  And madness and despair are a force.  And
force is a crime in the eyes of the fools, the weak and the silly who
rule the roost.  You are mediocre.  Verloc, whose affair the police has
managed to smother so nicely, was mediocre.  And the police murdered him.
He was mediocre.  Everybody is mediocre.  Madness and despair!  Give me
that for a lever, and I’ll move the world.  Ossipon, you have my cordial
scorn.  You are incapable of conceiving even what the fat-fed citizen
would call a crime.  You have no force.”  He paused, smiling sardonically
under the fierce glitter of his thick glasses.

“And let me tell you that this little legacy they say you’ve come into
has not improved your intelligence.  You sit at your beer like a dummy.
Good-bye.”

“Will you have it?” said Ossipon, looking up with an idiotic grin.

“Have what?”

“The legacy.  All of it.”

The incorruptible Professor only smiled.  His clothes were all but
falling off him, his boots, shapeless with repairs, heavy like lead, let
water in at every step.  He said:

“I will send you by-and-by a small bill for certain chemicals which I
shall order to-morrow.  I need them badly.  Understood—eh?”

Ossipon lowered his head slowly.  He was alone.  “_An impenetrable
mystery_. . . . ”  It seemed to him that suspended in the air before him
he saw his own brain pulsating to the rhythm of an impenetrable mystery.
It was diseased clearly. . . .  “_This act of madness or despair_.”

The mechanical piano near the door played through a valse cheekily, then
fell silent all at once, as if gone grumpy.

