WEDNESDAY, Mar. 21/31
At anchorage.  A fine warm day.  Beginning
to put ship in trim for return voyage.
Bringing ballast, etc.  Some, including
the Masters-mates, went on shore, who on
return reported that the Planters sent the
Indian Samoset away.  A general meeting of
the Planters was held at the common-house,
to conclude laws and orders, and to confirm
the military orders formerly proposed, and
twice broken off by the savages coming, as
happened again.  After the meeting had held
an hour or so, two or three savages
appeared on the hill over against the town,
and made semblance of daring the Planters.
Captain Standish and another, with their
muskets, went over to them, with the two
Masters-mates of the ship, who were ashore,
also armed with muskets.  The savages made
show of defiance, but as our men drew near
they ran away.  This day the carpenter, who
has long been ill of scurvy, fitted the
shallop to carry all the goods and
furniture aboard the ship, on shore.

THURSDAY, Mar. 22/Apr. 1
At anchorage.  A very fair, warm day.
At work on ship getting ready for sea,
bringing ballast aboard, etc.  Another
general meeting of the Planters which all
able attended.  They had scarce been an
hour together when Samoset the Indian came
again with one Squanto, the only native of
Patuxet (where the Planters now inhabit)
surviving, who was one of the twenty captives
carried away from this place by Captain Hunt,
to England.  He could speak a little English.
They brought three other Indians with them.
They signified that their great Sagamore,
Masasoyt, was hard by, with Quadequina his
brother, and all their men.  They could not
well express what they would in English,
but after an hour the king came to the top
of the hill, over against the plantation,
with his train of about sixty men.  Squanto
went to him and brought a message that one
should be sent to parley with him, and Master
Edward Winslow went, to know hisnmind, and
signify the wish of the Governor to have
trading and peace with him, the Governor
sending presents to the king and his brother,
with something to eat and drink.

