For, first, it is said, that if ther had been no divission of houses &
lands, it had been better for ye poore.  True, and yt showeth ye
inequalitie of ye condition; we should more respect him yt ventureth both
his money and his person, then him yt ventureth but his person only.

2.  Consider whereaboute we are, not giveing almes, but furnishing a
store house; no one shall be porer then another for 7. years, and if any
be rich, none can be pore.  At ye least, we must not in such bussines
crie, Pore, pore, mercie, mercie.  Charitie hath it[s] life in wraks, not
in venturs; you are by this most in a hopefull pitie of makeing,
therefore complaine not before you have need.

3.  This will hinder ye building of good and faire houses, contrarie to
ye advise of pollitiks.  A.  So we would have it; our purpose is to build
for ye presente such houses as, if need be, we may with litle greefe set
a fire, and rune away by the lighte; our riches shall not be in pompe,
but in strength; if God send us riches, we will imploye them to provid
more men, ships, munition, &c.  You may see it amongst the best
pollitiks, that a comonwele is readier to ebe then to flow, when once
fine houses and gay cloaths come up.

4.  The Govet may prevente excess in building.  A.  But if it be on all
men beforehand resolved on, to build mean houses, ye Govet laboure is
spared.

5.  All men are not of one condition.  A.  If by condition you mean
wealth, you are mistaken; if you mean by condition, qualities, then I say
he that is not contente his neighbour shall have as good a house, fare,
means, &c.  as him selfe, is not of a good qualitie.  2ly.  Such retired
persons, as have an eie only to them selves, are fitter to come wher
catching is, then closing; and are fitter to live alone, then in any
societie, either civil or religious.

6.  It will be of litle value, scarce worth 5li.  A.  True, it may not be
worth halfe 5li.  If then so smale a thing will content them, (the
Adventurers) why strive we thus aboute it, and give them occasion to
suspecte us to be worldly & covetous?  I will not say what I have heard
since these complaints came first over [from Leyden].

