7.  Our freinds with us yt adventure mind not their owne profite, as did
ye old adventurers.  A.  Then they are better than we, who for a little
matter of profite are readie to draw back, and it is more apparente,
brethern looke too it, that make profit your maine end; repente of this,
els goe not least you be like Jonas to Tarshis.  Though some of
them mind not their profite, yet others doe mind it; and why not as well
as we?  venturs are made by all sorts of men, and we must labour to give
them all contente, if we can.

8.  It will break ye course of comunitie, as may be showed by many
reasons.  A.  That is but said, and I say againe, it will best foster
comunion, as may be showed by many reasons.

9.  Great profite is like to be made by trucking, fishing, &c.  A. As it
is better for them, so for us; for halfe is ours, besids our living still
upon it, and if such profite in yt way come, our labour shall be ye less
on ye land, and our houses & lands will be of less value.

10.  Our hazard is greater than theirs.  A.  True, but doe they put us
upon it?  doe they urge or egg us?  hath not ye motion & resolution been
always in our selves? doe they any more then in seeing us resolute if we
had means, help us to means upon equall termes & conditions!  If we will
not goe, they are content to keep their moneys.

Thus I have pointed at a way to loose those knots, which I hope you will
consider seriously, and let me have no more stirr about them.

Now furder, I hear a noise of slavish conditions by me made; but surly
this is all I have altered, and reasons I have sent you.  If you mean it
of ye 2. days in a week for perticuler, as some insinuate, you are
deceived; you may have 3. days in a week for me if you will.  And when I
have spoken to ye adventurers of times of working, they have said they
hope we are men of discretion & conscience, and so fitt to be trusted our
selves with that.  But indeed ye ground of our proceedings at Leyden was
mistaken, and so here is nothing but tottering every day, &c.

