Among the decisive battles of the world, among the discoveries of new
lands, among the vast trade routes, how many of these do not come under
the category of maritime? And yet in many an able-bodied, vigorous man,
who owes most of his happiness and prosperity to the sea in some way or
another, you find a spirit of antagonism to the sea, a positive hatred
of ships, an utter indifference to the progress of maritime affairs.
Hence, too, consistently following the same principle, the world
always treats the seafaring man of all ranks in the worst possible
manner. It matters not that the sailorman pursues a life of hardship
in all climes and all weathers away from the comforts of the shore
and the enjoyment of his own family. He brings the merchant’s goods
through storm and stress of weather across dangerous tracts of sea,
but he gets the lowest remuneration and the vilest treatment. He goes
off whaling or fishing, perhaps never to come home again, performing
work that brings out the finest qualities of manhood, pluck, daring,
patience, unselfishness, and cool, quick decision at critical moments.
Physically, too, he sacrifices much; but what does he get in return?
And then think also of the men on the warships. But it is no new
grievance.

Throughout history the world has had but scant consideration for the
sons of the sea, whether fighters, adventurers, or freight-carriers.
You have only to read the complaints of seamen in bygone times to
note this. One may indeed wonder sometimes that throughout the world,
and in fact throughout history, men have ever been found knowingly
to undertake the seafaring life with all its hardships and all its
privations. To people whose ideas are shaped only by the possibilities
of loss and gain, who are lacking in imaginative endowment, in romance
and the joy of adventure, it is certainly incredible that any man
should seriously choose the sea as his profession in preference to
a life of comfort and financial success on shore. Indeed, the gulf
between the two temperaments is so great that it were almost useless to
hazard an explanation. The plainest and best answer is to assert that
there are two classes of humanity, neither more nor less. Of these the
one class is born with the sea-sense; the other does not possess that
faculty, never has and never could, no matter what the opportunities
and training that might be available. Therefore the former, in spite of
his lack of experience, is attracted by the sea-life notwithstanding
its essential drawbacks; the latter would not be tempted to that
avocation even by the possibility of capturing Spanish treasure-ships,
or of discovering an unknown island rich with minerals and precious
stones.

