Of all the activities of human nature few are so interesting and so
insistent on our sympathy as the eternal combat which goes on between
man on the one side and the forces of Nature on the other. Conscious
of his own limitations and his own littleness, man has nevertheless
throughout the ages striven hard to overcome these forces and to
exercise his own freedom. But he has done this not so much by direct
opposition as by employing Nature to overcome Nature; and there can be
no better instance of this than is found in the art of tacking, whereby
the mariner harnesses the wind in order to enable him to go against the
wind.

Winds and tides and waves are mightier than all the strength of
humanity put together. The statement was as true in pre-Dynastic times
as it is to-day. For a long time man was appalled by their superhuman
strength and capabilities; he preferred to have nothing to do with
them. Those nations which had their habitation inland naturally feared
them most. But as familiarity with danger engenders a certain contempt,
so those who dwelt by the sea began to lose something of their awe and
to venture to wrestle with the great trio of wind, wave, and tide.
Had they not exercised such courage and independence the history and
development of the world would have been entirely different.

It is obvious that the growth of the arts of the sea--by which is meant
ship designing and building, seamanship and navigation--can only occur
among seafaring people. You cannot expect to find these arts prospering
in the centre of a continent, but only along the fringe where land
meets sea. And, similarly, where you find very little coast, or a very
dangerous coast, or a more convenient land route than the sea, you will
not find the people of that country taking to the awe-inspiring sea
without absolute necessity. This statement is so obvious in itself,
so well borne out by history and so well supported by facts, that it
would scarcely seem to need much elucidation. Even to-day, even in an
age which has so much to be thankful for in respect of conveniences,
we actually hear of landsmen looking forward with positive horror to
an hour’s crossing the Channel in a fast and able steamship, with its
turbines, its comfortable cabins, and the rest. If it were possible
to reach the Continent by land rather than water they would do so and
rejoice. So it was in the olden times thousands of years ago; so, no
doubt, it will ever be.

