But then there came a new precedent when Sennacherib embarked his
army on board a fleet and went in search of the exiles of Bit-Iakin.
The only ships that were at his disposal were those belonging to the
Chaldean States. These craft were in every way unsuitable; they were
obsolete, clumsy, heavy, bad sea-boats, and slow. During his wars,
however, he had seen the famous sailors of Sidon, and noted alike the
progress which these seafarers had made in actual shipbuilding, and in
the handling of their craft at sea. These were of course Phœnicians,
and among his prisoners Sennacherib found a sufficient number of
Phœnicians to build for him a fleet, establishing one shipbuilding
yard on the Euphrates and another on the Tigris. The result was that
they turned out a number of craft of the galley type with a double
row of oarsmen. These two divisions of newly built craft met on the
Euphrates not far from the sea, the Euphrates being always navigable.
The contingent from the Tigris, however, had to come by the canal
which united the two rivers. And then, manned with crews from Tyre and
Sidon, and Cypriot Greeks, the fleet went forth to its destination;
Sennacherib then disembarked his men and rendered his expedition
victorious.

Here, then, is just another instance of a non-seafaring people
taking to the sea not from choice, not from instinct, but from
compulsion--because there was no other alternative; and all the time
employing seafaring mercenaries to perform a work that was strange
to landsmen, just as in later days at different periods (until they
themselves had grown in knowledge and experience), the English had to
import sailors from Friesland in the time of Alfred, or Italians in the
early Tudor period. The sea was still hardly more than a half-opened
book, and few there were who dared to look into its pages.




CHAPTER III

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MARINE INSTINCT


But when we come to the Phœnicians we are in touch with a veritable
race of seamen who to the south are in just the same relation as the
Vikings are to the north. Whether they took to the sea because they
longed to become great merchants, or whether they were seamen first and
employed their daring to commercial benefit needs no discussion. They
had the true vocation for the sea, and it was inevitable that sooner or
later they must become mighty explorers and traders.

