“The first considerable improvement in shipbuilding which can be
confidently ascribed to the Phœnicians,” says Professor Rawlinson,[1]
“is the construction of biremes. Phœnician biremes are represented
in the Assyrian sculptures as early as the time of Sennacherib (700
B.C.), and had probably then been in use for some considerable period.
They were at first comparatively short vessels, but seem to have been
decked, the rowers working in the hold. They sat at two elevations,
one above the other, and worked their oars through holes in the
vessel’s side. It was in frail barks of this description, not much
better than open boats in the earlier period, that the mariners of
Phœnicia, and especially those of Sidon, as far back as the thirteenth
or fourteenth century before our era, affronted the perils of the
Mediterranean.”

At first the Phœnicians confined their voyages to the limits of the
western end of the Mediterranean, but even then, notwithstanding their
superiority in seamanship and navigation, they suffered many a disaster
at sea. Three hundred ships were lost in a storm off Mt. Athos when
they first attempted to invade Greece. And on their second attempt
six hundred more ships were lost off Magnesia and Eubœa. In addition
to this, it must be presumed that the rocks and shoals of the Ægean
Sea, the cruel coasts of Greece, Spain, Italy, Crete, and Asia Minor
would account for a good many more losses of ships and men. In those
days, too, when one ship on meeting another used to ask in perfect
candour if the latter were a pirate, and received an equally candid
answer, there was thus a further risk to be undergone by all who used
the sea for their living. If the ship were in fact piratical and her
commander considered himself the stronger of the two, his crew would
waste little time, but promptly board the other ship, confiscate her
cargo, bind the seamen and sell them off at the nearest slave market.
And be it remembered that a Phœnician ship, inasmuch as she was usually
full of goods recently purchased or about to be sold, was something
worth capturing. Her cargo of rich merchandise was deserving of a keen
struggle and the loss of a number of men.

