Nor were the Phœnicians averse from reckoning slaves among their
commodities for barter; indeed, this was a great and important feature
of their trade. Away they went roaming the untracked seas with their
powerful oarsmen and single squaresail and their hulls well filled
with valuable commodities, “freighting their vessels,” as Herodotus
relates, “with the wares of Egypt and Assyria” for the Greek consumer.
Year after year the ships sailed forth from Tyre to traverse the whole
length of the Mediterranean and out into the Atlantic northwards to
the British Isles, through storm and tempest, to embark the cargoes of
tin. To be able to perform such a voyage not once but time after time
is sufficient proof of the seamanship and navigation of the crews no
less than of the seaworthiness of the Phœnician craft. Even that most
wonderful circumnavigation of Africa by the Phœnicians as given by
Herodotus is regarded by Grote, Rawlinson, and other authorities as
having actually occurred and being not a mere figment of imagination.
The story may be briefly summed up thus. Neco, King of Egypt, was
anxious to have a means of connecting the Red Sea and Mediterranean
by water, but had failed in his efforts to make a canal between the
Nile and the Gulf of Suez, so he resolved that the circumnavigation
of Africa should be attempted. For this he needed the world’s finest
seamen and navigators with the best ocean-going ships available.
Accordingly he chose the Phœnicians, who, departing from a Red Sea
port, coasted round Africa, and after nearly three years arrived safely
back in Egypt. The obvious question which the reader will ask is how
could such craft possibly carry enough food for three years. The answer
is that they did not even attempt such a feat. Instead, they used to
make some harbour after part of their voyage was accomplished, land,
sow their grain, wait till harvest-time, and then sail off with their
food on board all ready for a further instalment of the journey.
And there is really nothing too wonderful in this long voyage when
we remember that in Africa what is to-day called Indian corn can be
reaped six weeks after being sown; and that three years is not such
an excessively long time for a well-manned craft fitted with mast and
squaresail to coast from headland to headland, across all the bays and
bights of the African continent. A great achievement it certainly was,
not to be attempted (unless history is woefully silent) again until
towards the close of the fifteenth century, when Vasco da Gama doubled
the Cape of Good Hope.

