They had for years been wont in the Mediterranean to make voyages by
night. They had steered their course by aid of the Polar star. “They
undoubtedly,” remarks Professor Rawlinson, “from an ancient date
made themselves charts of the seas which they frequented, calculated
distances, and laid down the relative position of place to place.
Strabo says that the Sidonians especially cultivated the arts of
astronomy and arithmetic as being necessary for reckoning a ship’s
course, and particularly needed in sailing by night.” Later on we
shall again call attention to the great surprise which confronted the
dwellers by the Mediterranean when they voyaged into other seas. The
Phœnicians, so long as they cruised only in the former, had no tide
to contend with; but when they set forth into the Red Sea, the Indian
Ocean, the Atlantic, and the English Channel, they found a factor
which, hitherto, they had not been compelled to encounter. But by such
a seafaring race it was not long before even this new consideration
was dealt with and utilised in the proper manner. “They noted,” says
Rawlinson, “the occurrence of spring and neap tides, and were aware of
the connection with the position of the sun and moon relatively to the
earth, but they made the mistake of supposing that the spring tides
were highest at the summer solstice, whereas they are really highest
in December.”

If we omit the Egyptians from our category as being almost exclusively
inland navigators, we must regard these Phœnicians as historically the
first great seamen of the world, and it is nothing short of remarkable
that in an age such as theirs, when there were so few accessories to
encourage and develop the marine instinct, they should have essayed
so much and succeeded so magnificently in their projects. Remember,
too, that they had something of the instinct of the engineer as well
as of the seaman in their nature. It was the Phœnicians whom Xerxes
employed in 485 B.C. for the purpose of cutting a ship canal through
the isthmus which joins Mt. Athos to the mainland. It was they, also,
who constructed a double bridge of boats across the Hellespont to form
the basis of a solid causeway, and in each of these undertakings they
covered themselves with distinction.

