They were no amateurs, no mere experimenters. It is certain that,
in their own time, they were, even with their primitive ships, very
far from primitive in their ideas of seamanship. Read the following
exceedingly interesting account of one who went aboard a Phœnician
vessel and has left to posterity his impressions of his visit. The
descriptive narrative reads so true and seems so perfectly spontaneous
and natural that we almost forget the many centuries which have elapsed
since it was set down. Here, then, you have the record of no less a
person than Xenophon, a man who was far too discriminating to allow
any flow of careless words, far too observant, also, to allow anything
worth noting to escape his watchful eye. In “The Economist” he makes
one of his characters refer to a Phœnician trireme, and he is speaking
of that nation’s ships when the Phœnicians were under the Persian
system:--

“Or[2] picture a trireme, crammed choke-ful of mariners; for what
reason is she so terror-striking an object to her enemies, and a sight
so gladsome to the eyes of friends? Is it not that the gallant ship
sails so swiftly? And why is it that, for all their crowding, the
ship’s company cause each other no distress? Simply that there, as you
see them, they sit in order; in order bend to the oar; in order recover
the stroke; in order step on board; in order disembark.”

And again:--

“I must tell you, Socrates, what strikes me as the finest and most
accurate arrangement of goods and furniture it was ever my fortune to
set eyes on, when I went as a sightseer on board the great Phœnician
merchantman and beheld an endless quantity of goods and gear of all
sorts, all separately packed and stowed away within the smallest
compass. I need scarce remind you (he said, continuing his narrative)
what a vast amount of wooden spars and cables a ship depends on in
order to get to moorings; or again, in putting out to sea: you know
the host of sails and cordage, rigging as they call it, she requires
for sailing; the quantity of engines and machinery of all sorts she
is armed with in case she should encounter any hostile craft; the
infinitude of arms she carries, with her crew of fighting men aboard.
Then all the vessels and utensils, such as people use at home on land,
required for the different messes, form a portion of the freight; and
besides all this, the hold is heavy laden with a mass of merchandise,
the cargo proper, which the master carries with him for the sake of
traffic. Well, all these different things that I have named lay packed
there in a space but little larger than a fair-sized dining-room.
The several sorts, moreover, as I noticed, lay so well arranged,
there could be no entanglement of one with other, nor were searchers
needed; and if all were snugly stowed, all were alike get-at-able,
much to the avoidance of delay if anything were wanted on the instant.
Then the pilot’s mate--the look-out man at the prow, to give him his
proper title--was, I found, so well acquainted with the place for
everything that, even off the ship, he could tell you where each set
of things was laid and how many there were of each, just as well as
anyone who knows his alphabet could tell you how many letters there are
in Socrates, and the order in which they stand. I saw this same man
(continued Ischomachus) examining at leisure everything which could
possibly be needful for the service of the ship. His inspection caused
me such surprise, I asked him what he was doing, whereupon he answered,
‘I am looking to see, stranger, in case anything should happen, how
everything is arranged in the ship, and whether anything is wanting or
not lying handy and shipshape. There is no time left, you know, when
God makes a tempest in the great deep, to set about searching for what
you want or to be giving out anything which is not snug and shipshape
in its place.’”

