But it is when we come to Pytheas of Massilia that we reach the
border-line which separates fact from fable. This eminent astronomer
and geographer of Marseilles brought together a knowledge of northern
countries which was based not on premonition, not on speculation, not
on hearsay, but on actual experience. So original, so accurate, and
so far-reaching was his work, that for the next fifteen hundred years
he dominated all geographical knowledge. We can fix his time if we
remember that he flourished probably about the year 330 B.C. He was
the first person in history to introduce astronomical measurements for
ascertaining the geographical situation of a place, and thus became the
founder of the science of navigation--the science which has enabled
seas to be crossed in safety and continents to be discovered; which has
given to the ship of all species a freedom to employ her speed without
sacrificing safety. Indirectly arising from these may be traced the
development and civilising and peopling of the world which have so
entirely modified history.

By means of a great gnomon, Pytheas determined “with surprising
accuracy” the latitude of Marseilles, and in relation to this laid
down the latitude of more northerly places. He observed that the Pole
of the heavens did not coincide, as the earlier astronomer Eudoxus
had supposed, with any star. What Pytheas did find was that it made
an almost regular rectangle with three stars lying near it. (At that
time the Pole was some distance from the present Pole-star.) And since
Pytheas steered by the stars, the Pole of the heavens was obviously of
the highest importance to him. A gnomon, it may be explained, was the
pillar of projection which cast the shadow on the various Greek forms
of dial. In the case under discussion the gnomon was a vertical column
raised on a plane.

As to the species of ship in which Pytheas sailed we can but speculate.
Most probably it was somewhat similar to the Phœnician type, with
oarsmen and one mast with squaresail. But what is known is that he
sailed out through the Pillars of Hercules. At that date Cape St.
Vincent--then known as the Sacred Promontory--was the furthest of the
world’s limit in the minds of the Greeks. He was the first to sail
along the coasts of Northern Gaul and Germany. He was the discoverer
of at least most of Great Britain, the Shetlands, and Norway as far as
the Arctic Circle. And as he voyaged he studied the phenomena of the
sea--collected invaluable data as to tides and their origin. Himself
a Greek and unaccustomed to tidal movements, he was the first of his
race to connect this systematic flowing and ebbing of the sea with the
moon. Dr. Nansen, himself the greatest explorer of our times, has not
hesitated to describe Pytheas as “one of the most capable and undaunted
explorers the world has ever seen.” But as so often happens in the case
of a pioneer, Pytheas was ahead of his time, and the description which
he brought back of his travels, of the strange lands and unheard-of
phenomena, was not believed by his contemporaries. There followed,
therefore, a gulf of incredulity for about three hundred years till we
come to the time of Julius Cæsar, and from that point we shall, in due
course, continue to trace the development of navigational science.

