And then when the shipwright had finished his construction of the ship
she was coloured with a composition consisting of paint and wax, the
latter serving to give these speedy ships the minimum of skin-friction.
The colours chosen were purple, two whites, violet, yellow, and blue.
Green, for the sake of invisibility, was used for scouts and pirates.
The primitive Grecian ships had only patches of colour at the bows, the
rest of the hull being covered black with tar. Occasionally neither wax
nor tar was employed, but the hull was sheathed with lead outside the
planking, layers of tarred sailcloth being placed in between the two
materials. They made their sails either of linen, or, sometimes, of
papyrus fibre or flax, and there were two kinds of sailcloth which the
Athenian Navy utilised. The bolt-ropes of the sails were of hide, the
skins of the hyena and seal being especially employed. The ropes used
for the different purposes of the ship were of two kinds. Some were of
strips of hide; more frequently they were from the fibre of papyrus or
from flax or hemp. The sails were often coloured--black for mourning,
purple or vermilion for an admiral or monarch. Topsails were sometimes
coloured, the lower sail remaining uncoloured. The green-hulled
scouts also had their sails and ropes dyed to match the colour of the
Mediterranean. And sometimes the interesting sight would be seen of
sails with inscriptions and devices woven in golden thread into the
fabric.

There is a Greek word _askos_, which signifies a leathern bag or
wine-skin, from which the word _askoma_ is derived. The latter was
the word given to a leathern bag which was attached to the oar so as
to prevent the water from penetrating through into the ship, and yet
allowed, with only slight friction, the oar to be brought backward and
forward. There is something slightly similar to-day in the leather
flap which is found on the Bristol Channel pilot cutters, covering the
discharge from the watertight cockpits, the motion of the ship through
the water causing the flap to be pressed tightly against the hull, and
thus preventing any water from entering. But in the instance of the
Grecian craft the flap was much bigger. There were no rowlocks, but the
oar was fastened by a leathern loop to a thole-pin against which the
rower pulled his oar.

