About the year 700 B.C. the Greek warships were manned by fifty rowers;
hence these craft were called _pentekontoroi_. With the existence of
a forecastle and a raised horned poop, one can understand perfectly
well how easy was the transition which caused an upper deck to be added
about this century. This gave to the ship greater power, because it
allowed two banks of oarsmen, one on each deck. As far as possible
these rowers were covered in to avoid the attacks of the enemy. Such
shallow-draught vessels as the war-galleys could not possibly be good
as sailing craft. They must be looked upon as essentially rowing
vessels which occasionally set canvas when cruising and a fair wind was
blowing.

The _pentekontoroi_ were single-banked, and for a long time the Greek
fleets consisted solely of this type. But then came the additional
deck just spoken of which gave two banks, and subsequently the trireme
succeeded the bireme. The trireme was very popular till after the close
of the Peloponnesian War, when the quadrireme was introduced from
Carthage. Dr. Oskar Seyffert[6] asserts that before the close of the
fourth century B.C. quinquiremes and even six-banked craft, and (later
still) even sixteen-banked vessels are supposed by some writers to have
been in vogue. But as to the latter this seems highly improbable.

And before we proceed any further, let us endeavour to get a clear idea
as to the nature of a trireme. This species of ship had been invented
by those great seamen who hailed from the port of Sidon. About the
year 700 B.C. this type was adopted by the Greeks, and then began to
supersede all other existing types of war-vessels. Themistocles in
483 B.C. inaugurated the excellent practice of maintaining a large
permanent navy. As a commencement he built a hundred triremes, and
these were used at the battle of Salamis. In the Greek word _trieres_
there is nothing to signify that it was necessarily three-banked, and
it is well to realise this fact from the start. The word just means
“triple-arranged,” neither more nor less. It is when we come to the
question as to the details of this triple arrangement that we find a
divergence of theory. It will, therefore, be best if we state first the
prevailing theory of the trireme’s arrangement, and then pass on to
give what is the more modern and the more plausible interpretation.

