The number of oars in an ancient trireme was as many as 170. These oars
were necessarily very long, and time was kept sometimes by the music
of a flute, or by the stroke set by the _keleustes_, who was on board
for that purpose. This he did either with a hammer of some sort, or his
voice. And there is at least one illustration showing such a man using
a hammer in an oar-propelled boat for that purpose.[7] The inscriptions
which were unearthed some years ago, containing the inventories of
the Athenian dockyards, belonging to the years between 373 B.C. and
323 B.C., have been collected and published. And it is from them that
we obtain such valuable information as the number of oarsmen which
the biremes carried. This number was usually 200, and was disposed
in the ship as follows: There were 54 _thalamitai_, 54 _zugitai_, 62
_thranitai_, and 30 _perineo_. The exact meaning of the latter word
is supercargoes or passengers, but they were carried perhaps as spare
oarsmen in case any became disabled.

All oars were worked together against the tholes, and as we know from
the old depictions there was a space left both at bow and stern beyond
the oarsmen, this space being called the _parexeiresia_. The number
of oarsmen just mentioned may seem very large, but having regard to
the speed required for manœuvring and for ramming effectively it is
not excessive. But when a war-vessel was employed on transport duty
so great a host of men was not essential. In the case of a vessel
engaged, for instance, in carrying horses in her hold only sixty
oarsmen were needed. Had you found yourself alongside one of the
war-galleys you would have been struck by its length and leanness more
than by anything else. As you passed round by the bows you would have
observed the two great eyes, one on either side of the hull, through
which in all probability the hawsers passed. Behind these two eyes
were very substantial catheads which projected like great ears from
the ship, and were used primarily for slinging the anchors just as in
the old-fashioned sailing ships of Nelson and after; but, secondly,
for convenience when ramming. Thus, when the terrible shock came, the
catheads would protect the oars of the ship from damage and allow the
utmost speed to be maintained till the last minute--a factor that was
naturally of the highest importance. But also they were sometimes
strengthened with supports so that they might catch in the topsides of
the enemy and do him considerable damage.

