The true war-vessel was made in the proportions of length seven or
eight times her width, and drew about 3 feet of water. Light, shallow,
and flat, not particularly seaworthy, they were utterly different
from the round, heavy, strong, decked merchantman. The war-galley’s
triple-spiked ram had come into use as far back as 556 B.C. The galley
was most certainly fast and built of fir with a keel of oak. Competent
modern authorities agree in estimating the speed of the galley and
merchantman in those days as about 7½ to 4 (or 5) knots respectively.

[Illustration: PORTIONS OF EARLY MEDITERRANEAN ANCHOR IN LEAD FOUND OFF
THE COAST OF CYRENE.

(In the British Museum.)]

When stone was discarded and metal anchors began to be adopted
about the year 600 B.C., they were made first of iron. Some idea of
the weight of the holding tackle in vogue may be gathered from the
statement that an anchor weighing less than 56 lbs. was used in the
Athenian navy. (For the sake of comparison, it may be added that this
is about the weight of a modern 10-ton yacht’s bower anchor.) Stone
and lead were affixed to these anchors by iron clamps near the bottom
of the shank. The ships of the Athenian navy carried each a couple
of anchors, while large merchant ships carried several, as we know
from the voyages of St. Paul. Cork floats were employed for buoying
the anchors, as to-day, and also served the purpose of lifebuoys.
Usually the ships rode to rope cables, but sometimes to chain ones. It
can readily be imagined that when these light ships pitched fore and
aft into a sea the two large steering oars at the high stern would be
frequently out of the water, and thus quite easily the vessel would
not be under command. In such instances another pair was placed at the
bows. Like the modern Arabs, the early seamen of the Mediterranean
had to go aloft as best they could by climbing the sail, the mast, or
hanging their weight on any rope they could find.

“Curiously,” says Mr. Torr in his invaluable little book “Ancient
Ships,” to which I am considerably indebted, “the practice was always
to brail up half the sail when the ship was put on either tack,
the other half being thereby transformed into a triangle with base
extending from the middle of the yard to the leeward end of it, and
apex terminating in the sheet below.” Apparently, when the yard was
braced round the sail was furled on the arm that came aft, but left
unfurled on the arm that went forward.

