But the picture of the ancient Greek shipbuilding activity is far
from complete owing to the comparatively scant material which
exists. In 1834, when the workmen were digging the foundations for a
building at the Piræus, they came upon a Roman or Byzantine drain,
and discovered it to be lined with slabs of marble which were covered
with inscriptions. These were some of the inventories of the Athenian
dockyards of the fourth century B.C., and will be found published in
August Böckh’s “Corpus Inscriptionum Atticarum,” Vol. II, Part II, p.
158.

In any consideration of the Greek seamen we must think of them as
existing almost exclusively for one purpose--not for trading or
exploring or fishing, but for fighting. Into the latter was poured
practically all their seafaring energy. Their general naval strategy
consisted of two kinds. The first consisted in reproducing afloat the
principles of fighting on shore. To this end the galleys were massed
with troops as many as they could hold, and so soon as the engaging
combatants could get close enough they attacked each other with spears
and shot arrows from their bows. The victory therefore came to that
floating army which had the most numerous and ablest soldiers. Brute
force rather than tactics: energy rather than skill won the day.

And thus it continued until about the end of the fifth century B.C.,
when another method of fighting was introduced and developed by the
Athenians to its most perfect state. This consisted as follows: The
well-manned, quickly-darting galley shot out against the enemy,
pecked deeply--viciously--with its beak, and then hurried out of
the danger sphere as quickly as it had entered. Connected with the
general strategy of ramming there were two distinct schemes of tactics
employed. The first was called _diekplous_, or sailing through. This
consisted of breaking the enemy’s line. A single line of galleys would
pass between the enemy’s line, make a sharp turn, and then swoop down
on to them from astern, doing the utmost damage with their rams. The
other was technically known as _periplous_, or sailing around, and
consisted in outflanking the enemy’s ships so as to charge them with
the beak against their broadside. Thus it will be seen that neither of
these manœuvres involved a direct prow-to-prow attack, for the reason
that the Athenian ships were too light as to the bows. Prior to a fight
protective awnings of sailcloth or horsehair were spread over the open
spaces on these galleys, and every protection that could be afforded
the essential oarsmen was provided. Everything points to the fact that
the Greek fleets were properly organised and drilled. An admiral’s
ship was distinguished by a flag as well as any purple or vermilion
sail which she might carry so as most easily to be discernible across
the waters. When the fleet was at sea doing a passage before a fair
wind bound for the battle area, the admiral’s sail would in itself be
sufficient for a sign. But, as already emphasised, sails were lowered
before the battle commenced, and it is probable that either the flag
was displayed somewhere about the ship in that case, or that some
other method, such as the colour of the hull, was employed to cause
the discrimination. It is probable that the Greek admiral’s ship at
night, like that of the Roman admiral, carried three lights, the other
warships having one light each, except the transports, which were
distinguished by two.

