The Rhodians were great shipbuilders, and in their sheds was kept many
a craft ready to put to sea. But as Britain to-day builds warships for
nations other than herself, so it was with Rhodes, and to this end she
used to have brought to her immense quantities of timber, iron, lead,
pitch, tar, resin, hemp, hair (for caulking), and sailcloth. Even human
hair was employed in the service of the ship, and at the time of need
the ladies of Rhodes, Carthage, and Massilia cut off their tresses
and yielded it up for the making of ropes. The Rhodian squadrons were
usually of three ships or multiples of three, and every year a squadron
went forth for its sea experiences. The trieres, which carried as
many as two hundred men, each voyaged as far as the Atlantic. Fine
swimmers, fine seamen, their sea prowess was the cause of the greatest
admiration on the part of the Greeks. “It was a proverb,” says Mr.
Torr in his “Rhodes in Ancient Times,”[12] “that ten Rhodians were
worth ten ships,” and we must attribute their natural instinct and
acquired skill for marine matters to that fortunate accident of being
an island nation--a circumstance which has always, in all parts of the
globe, meant so much to the progress and independence of a nation.
Furthermore, the port of Rhodes was an important point on the line of
commerce, and this fact also must be taken into account in reckoning up
the influences at work for encouraging the marine arts, especially in
inculcating an interest and admiration for the things of the sea. For
those great merchant ships which used to sail to Egypt and come back
to Greece laden with corn were accustomed to make Rhodes their port of
call, and we cannot doubt that the sojourn of these big vessels with
their impressive bulk and remarkable spars would make a powerful appeal
to the imagination of the local sailormen and shipwrights always on the
look-out for new ideas. Then, too, they had their own overseas trade,
for large quantities of wine were exported from Rhodes to both Egypt
and Sicily. Even by the third century B.C. the Rhodians were strong
both as a naval and commercial nation. Their maritime laws were so
excellent that they were afterwards adopted by Rome, and even to-day
much of the world’s best sea law can be traced back to the people of
that Mediterranean island.

