


CHAPTER V

ROME AND THE SEA


Marine development under the Romans was largely influenced by Greek
precedent and practice, but there were points of difference.

The transportation of goods across the seas was conducted by
shipowners, who formed themselves into corporations under the style of
_navicularii marini_, but from the middle of November to the middle of
March navigation was suspended until the finer weather returned. Under
the Republic these shipmen worked for the companies of _publicani_, but
Augustus abolished these financial companies, appointing in their stead
superintendents who dealt direct with the owners of ships. The latter
were regarded as anything but unimportant. On them the victualling of
the capital largely depended, and the early emperors granted them, as
owners of important merchant vessels, special privileges; but this was
conditional on their ships possessing a capacity of 10,000 modii, and
on their carrying corn to Rome for the period of six years. Though they
were not in the permanent employ of the State, yet they were liberally
rewarded for their services. In the corporations of the _navicularii
marini_ there was no clear distinction between the shipowner who worked
“on his own” and those engaged in working for the State.

From the time of Diocletian, however, the _navicularii_ were all
servants of the State, and it was their duty to transport cargoes
of corn, oil, wood, and bullion from the provinces to Rome or
Constantinople. In their ships the Imperial post was carried. They
received a fixed percentage and were responsible to the State for the
goods placed in their holds. Membership of these corporations was
handed down from father to son. They were allowed to engage in private
trade and enjoyed the additional privilege of passing their cargoes
duty free through the Customs. Similarly, additional to the overseas
traffic, the internal navigation was organised by corporations of
merchants and barge-owners. For example, the State employed them to
handle the consignments of corn from Egypt on the Nile, Tiber, and the
rivers and lakes of Northern Italy, Spain, Gaul, and Germany. So, too,
the Rhone and Saône were navigated by them.

