[Illustration: SKETCHES OF ANCIENT SHIPS.

By RICHARD COOK, R.A., from Montfarreon’s “Antiquities,” showing
warships with marines and fighting-platform amidships; the lower
sketches show clearly the types of bow and stern.]

Great importance was clearly attached to the quinquiremes, for in such
craft envoys, commissioners, or messengers of victory were carried.
They fought together with the triremes and quadriremes as the capital
ships of the Roman navy, and whilst the State depended on the treaty
towns and allies for their lighter craft, yet the all-important
quinquiremes were kept under immediate control. The description and
arrangement of the different kinds of Greek warships is generally
applicable to those of the Romans. On the deck of the galley the troops
fought, while below them were the oarsmen. These propugnatores were
protected by means of bulwarks (_propugnacula_) as well as by two
wooden towers (_turres_), carried on supports which could be taken down
from the ship whenever required.

[Illustration: THREE ANCIENT COINS FROM SCHEFFER’S “DE MILITIA NAVALI”
ILLUSTRATING TYPES OF RAMS.]

Among the Greeks it was customary to divide ships into _kataphraktoi_
and _aphraktoi_, according as to whether they were decked in or
otherwise. The corresponding Latin expressions were _navis tecta_ or
_navis aperta_ respectively. The quinquireme, however, was always
cataphract; that is to say, the planking did not end at the gunwale,
but was continued to the upper deck so as to afford protection to
the rowers from missiles. As to the dimensions and tonnage of the
quinquireme it is impossible to make any statement, but they were of
such a size that, with some difficulty, they could be hauled up on
shore at night.

[Illustration: BRONZE FIGUREHEAD OF MINERVA FROM A ROMAN SHIP FOUND IN
THE SEA OFF ACTIUM.

(Probably belonging to one of the ships which fought in the battle of
Actium, B.C. 31.)]

Augustus realised that a Roman fleet in being was essential to police
the seas and keep down piracy so as to ensure the safe passage
of Rome’s corn supply from Egypt. The two fleets which he based
permanently on Misenum and Ravenna respectively to guard the Western
and Eastern seas were of the utmost utility. He even went so far
as to connect Ravenna with the Po by means of a canal. Manned with
crews and captains who were either slaves or freedmen, the ships were
unfortunately allowed to rot and the service to fall into desuetude,
and about A.D. 6 piracy was again rampant, so that it required once
more to be checked.

