[Illustration: TWO COINS DEPICTING “NAUMACHIÆ.”

(From Scheffer’s “De Militia Navali.”)]

The influence of the Roman navy on land was seen in a manner similar
to that in which the Roman army influenced gladiatorial combats. In
Rome there were various “naumachiæ,” which were great reservoirs
surrounded by seats like an amphitheatre and were specially constructed
for holding naval fights. There was one, for instance,[14] built by
Augustus on the trans-tiberine side of the river, and traces of this
naumachia were discovered not many years ago. A naumachia consisted of
an enormous tank or lake excavated in the ground, and measured 1800
feet long by 1200 feet wide. Within this ample area naval battles
containing thirty beaked ships with three or four tiers of oars,
together with many other smaller ships were engaged, and no fewer
than three thousand fighting men, to say nothing of the rowers, were
engaged. It is interesting to add that naval fights were also held
in a gigantic reservoir on the site now occupied by the Colosseum.

[Illustration: REPRESENTATION OF A ROMAN NAUMACHIA.

(See text.)]

No consideration of the relation of Rome to the sea can be complete
without taking into consideration those important and daring adventures
which Julius Cæsar attempted. Adventures they certainly were, for
here was a land general trying experiments which belonged rightly to
sailormen; and, as was the inevitable result, he made terrible mistakes
as he blundered through towards victory. His expedition against the
Veneti, “the stoutest and the most skilful seamen in Gaul,” taught
him much: taught him that he was matched to play a game whose tricks
he did not understand. But the praise belongs to him, a landsman, for
his ingenuity and resource in toiling with such signal success against
very heavy odds. He recognised quickly that the ships of the Veneti and
their allies were so heavy that no Roman galley with its cruel rams
could have any appreciable effect on them. They were too high out of
the water, too, to enable the legionaries to hurl their missiles with
any telling effect. It has been suggested that the design of these
powerful Biscayan craft had originally been borrowed from the great
Carthaginian merchantmen, “whose commerce in British waters they had
inherited, and their prosperity depended upon the carrying trade with
Britain, of which they possessed the monopoly.”[15]

