[Illustration: CHART TO ILLUSTRATE CÆSAR’S CROSSING THE ENGLISH
CHANNEL.]

But inasmuch as the prevailing wind along the English Channel is
from the south-west, the reader will observe on consulting a chart
that the position of Boulogne for the Gallic traders bound for Dover
or the Thames was singularly well placed, inasmuch as it gave the
mariner a fair wind outward-bound on most occasions. That fact was
doubtless appreciated by Cæsar when he elected to use this port as his
starting-place for Britain. He therefore gave orders that his fleet
was here to be got in readiness, and then sent forth Volusenus in a
galley to reconnoitre the British coast. The ship was a Roman galley
manned by oarsmen who had been trained by years of work for the task,
and with such a craft as this Volusenus could be independent of wind
and accomplish his task with the utmost dispatch. He was away cruising
about the English Channel for a period of three days, during which
time he had doubtless been able to locate a suitable place where his
master’s troops could be disembarked. He had had the opportunity of
taking soundings, and--perhaps most important of all to one accustomed
almost exclusively to the Mediterranean--of noticing both the range
of tide and the force and direction of the strong tidal streams.
Similarly, he was able to make a note of the cliffs of Dover and other
landmarks. With this knowledge he returned to place himself at Cæsar’s
disposal.

On August 25, then, the transports came out from Boulogne. The time was
midnight, it wanted five days to full moon, and high water that evening
was at 6 p.m., so that the tides were neaps, or at their weakest. We
can be quite sure that, acting on the experience of Volusenus in the
Channel, it was deliberately intended to avoid spring tides. (It is
high water at Boulogne at new and full moon at 11.28.) The transports
thus came out of the haven with the last drain of the ebb. But in the
offing the tide that night did not make to the eastward till 4 a.m., so
there would be the Channel ebb to contend against for some time.

