The geographical information which Cæsar brought back concerning Gaul
and Britain after his campaigns cannot be lightly regarded. It was the
knowledge which an explorer bestows on a wondering community. Such
items as prevailing winds, tides, currents, the influence of moon and
the nature of harbours along the coast, the depths of water, and so on,
might have been appreciated still more had the Romans been as eager for
scientific knowledge as they were for organisation and conquest.

But if the Romans were not great navigators nor even a race of
seamen, at any rate they were very fine shipwrights. Expert opinion
of to-day, arguing from the evidence of the only Roman craft which
are still in existence, gives the highest praise to the art of the
Roman shipbuilder. The relics of the craft found in Lake Nemi were
discussed by me in another volume,[16] and need be referred to now
only slightly. But the other craft which was recently unearthed whilst
excavations were being made in 1910 at Westminster, on the site for the
new London County Council Hall, is far more instructive, because being
above ground it is get-at-able and capable of intimate study. It now
lies among the collection of the London Museum in Kensington Gardens.
This craft was probably one of the fleet of Carausius, who for a time
was admiral under Maximilian and Diocletian, but subsequently rebelled
against the Imperial authority and proclaimed himself emperor of
Britain in A.D. 287.

[Illustration: Ship of the Roman Period discovered at Westminster.

SKETCH SHOWING THE INTERIOR OF HULL.]

This boat was found lying on a shell sand which indicated the original
bed of the Thames. The date is approximately fixed by the three coins
which were found with the boat: one of Tetricus the Elder in Gaul (A.D.
268–273), the second of Carausius in Britain (A.D. 286–293), and the
third of Alectus in Britain (A.D. 293–296). It is possible that there
was some ceremony in placing coins in a Roman boat, just as to-day coin
of the realm is placed at the laying of a foundation-stone.

