Even if we allow a great deal for the knowledge in shipbuilding which
the Romans acquired from the Veneti and from Gallic shipbuilders, yet
everything points to the fact that Italy knew how to build and how
to fight ships to such perfection that we cannot but feel for them
the keenest admiration. If they were not great explorers such as the
Phœnicians, they accomplished a great deal in other spheres of the
maritime art, and sometimes in the teeth of great obstacles.

[Illustration: DETAILS OF ROMAN SHIP FOUND AT WESTMINSTER.]

Here and there Virgil gives us delightful little sea-cameos which
show how keenly the ancients exulted in their ships, and raced them
against each other past rock and cliff, through wind and spume. What,
for example, could be more interesting than the account of the race
of the four galleys in the fifth book of the Æneid? He gives you the
names of the swift _Pristis_, the huge _Chimæra_, which with her triple
arrangement of oars was so big that she seemed like a floating town,
the _Centaur_, and the dark blue _Scylla_. He draws for you the picture
of the captains standing at the sterns, the crew taking their seats at
the oars and waiting in eager breathlessness for the trumpet to start
them on their race. Almost you can see the strong arms being drawn up
to the breast and thrust smartly away again. The blue _Scylla_ wins,
but it is a splendid struggle. The little touches of the ship which
was “swifter than wind or flying arrow speeds towards land,” and of
the disabled galley which moves slowly (like to a snake which has been
run over), yet hoists her canvas and enters the harbour’s mouth “with
full sails,” are pencilled in by a man who must have often watched
a galley doing her work. He speaks of the lofty sterns which these
galleys possessed, of Palinurus the pilot bidding his men to reef the
sails at the gathering of a “dark storm of rain, bringing with it
gloom and foul weather,” and gives orders to “labour at their strong
oars, and sidewards turn the sails to meet the wind.” Evidently with
the squall came a shift of wind, so that instead of being able to run
with the breeze free, under sail power alone, they were now compelled
to come on a wind, shorten canvas, and get out oars to prevent such
shallow-draught vessels from drifting to leeward.

