And in a later passage Æneas, after the sea has calmed down, “bids
all the masts quickly to be raised, and on the sailyards the sails to
be stretched. All at once veered the sheet, and loosened the bellying
canvas to right, to left; at once they all turn up and down the tall
ends of the sailyards; favouring breezes bear the fleet along. Foremost
before them all, Palinurus led the close line; with an eye to him the
rest were bid to direct their course. And now damp night had just
reached the centre of its course in the heavens; the sailors, stretched
on their hard seats beneath the oars, had relaxed their limbs in quiet
repose.”

There is some indication in the Georgics of the manner in which the
ancient seamen made use of stars and weatherology. “As carefully must
the star of Arcturus, and the days of the Kids, and the bright Dragon
be observed by us on land, as by those who, homewards bound across the
stormy seas, venture to the Euxine and the straits of oyster-breeding
Abydos.” ... “Hence we can learn coming changes of weather in the
dubious sky, hence the days of harvest and the season of sowing, and
when ’tis meet with oars to cut the faithless sea, when to launch our
rigged fleets, and when at the proper time to fell the pine tree in
the woods: nor will you be disappointed, if you watch the setting and
rising of the heavenly signs, and observe the year fairly divided by
four distinct seasons.” ... “Straightway, when winds arise, either the
straits of the sea begin to swell with agitation, and a dry crash is
heard on the high hills, or far in the distance the shores are filled
with confused echoes, and the murmur of the woods thickens on the ear.
The wave can but ill forbear to do a mischief to the crooked keels,
even when gulls fly swiftly back from the high sea, sending their
screams before them.... Oft too, when wind impends, you will see stars
shoot headlong from the sky.... But when it lightens from the quarter
of grim Boreas, and when the home of Eurus and Zephyrus thunders, then
are the dykes filled and all the country is flooded, and every mariner
out at sea furls his dripping sails.... The sun also, both when rising
and when he hides himself beneath the waves, will give you signs;
infallible signs attend the sun ... a blue colour announces rain, or
fiery winds; but if the spots begin to be mixed with glowing red, then
you will see all nature rage with wind and stormy rain together. On
such a night let no one advise me to venture on the deep, or pluck my
cable from its mooring on the shore.”

