


CHAPTER VI

THE VIKING MARINERS


War has always been a great incentive to shipbuilding. But this
statement requires modification by excluding both civil war and the
merchant ship. Of the former, no better instance could be found than
the disastrous Wars of the Roses. Of the latter, the manner in which
the Romans and others developed the war-galley at the neglect of the
merchant ship is a clear example.

The Vikings, too, were great warriors; hence the wonderful development
of their ships was for hostile purposes. But, unlike the Romans, they
were equally distinguished as maritime explorers. And it is with their
methods on the sea that we are now about to deal. They were so vigorous
in their activities, so dauntless and daring, such genuinely strenuous
shipmen that they were bound to do great things, or fail where none
could have succeeded. “They had neither compass nor astronomical
instruments,” as Dr. Nansen reminds us, “nor any of the appliances of
our time for finding their position at sea; they could only sail by the
sun, moon, and stars, and it seems incomprehensible how for days and
weeks, when these were invisible, they were able to find their course
through fog and bad weather. But they found it, and the open craft of
the Norwegian Vikings, with their square sails, fared north and west
over the whole ocean, from Novaya Zemlya and Spitzbergen to Greenland,
Baffin’s Bay, Newfoundland, and North America, and over these lands and
seas the Norsemen extended their dominion. It was not till five hundred
years later that the ships of other nations were to make their way to
the same regions.”[18]

That being so, how did these men succeed in making such long passages?
The lodestone or compass did not reach Norway until the thirteenth
century. I think that before we attempt a more definite answer we
should make a great allowance for that sea-sense which is partly inborn
and partly obtained by the experience of long years. I remember once
asking a man who had been skipper of a coaster, whose family had lived
their lives on the sea or by it, whose brothers had gone down with
their ships to the port whence there is no returning--how the captains
of such craft managed. Had they any real knowledge of navigation?
“No, sir,” my friend answered, “they’re all mostly self-reliant.” In
other words, they have a rough knowledge of the problems, and the rest
is instinct. Only the other day I was talking to yet another plain,
seafaring man. I asked him how he and his mates managed to find their
way in by night through a certain very tricky and unlighted channel
that was full of dangers and scoured by a strong tide. It was the same
answer. “They managed as best they could,” relied on their instinct,
sometimes made mistakes and got picked up, but on the whole succeeded
in getting through.

