From the narrative of a voyage north of Baffin’s Bay, about the year
1267, it appears that they endeavoured at sea to get an idea of the
sun’s altitude by observing where the shadow of the gunwale, on the
side nearest the sun, fell on a man lying athwartships when the sun was
in the south. This shows, at any rate, that the Norsemen did at least
observe the sun’s altitude. Even in thick weather they could get along
satisfactorily provided that the wind did not shift and send them off
their course. But if the breeze veered or backed a few points they
would be heading unconsciously in the wrong direction.

The observations of birds were of no little assistance. If the haze hid
the land off whose coasts they imagined themselves to be, they could
observe the kind of bird which was flying around them. A flight of
wild-fowl, a particular breed of sea-bird, the difference in the fauna,
and so on, when off such coasts as Scotland, Ireland, Iceland, and
Norway, could not fail to assist them greatly. It is true, also, that
in their sailing directions they took notice of the whale. Thus, when
sailing from Norway to Greenland one should keep at such a distance
to the southward of Iceland as to have birds and whales from thence.
Similarly, the drift-ice, icebergs, driftwood, floating seaweed, the
colour of the sea were all separate units in the whole method which
enabled them to perform what they did. The Gulf Stream water, being of
a purer blue than the greenish-brown water of the coastal current, must
also have assisted them in their long voyages. Like the ancient seamen
of the Mediterranean, they relied largely on the sounding lead, and
there is a record that Ingolf and Hjorleif found Iceland “by probing
the waves with the lead.”

[Illustration: PRIMITIVE NAVIGATION OF THE VIKINGS.

Finding the ship’s latitude by the shadow of the gunwale.]

As to the primitive method, referred to above, for finding the ship’s
latitude by observing the shadow of the gunwale, it has been suggested
that they might have measured the length of the shadow of the gunwale
by marks on the thwart, and determined when the boat lay on an even
keel by means of a bowl of water. They could thus obtain a fairly
trustworthy measurement of the sun’s altitude. It has been thought
possible that the Norwegians might have become acquainted with the
hour-glass either from their voyages to Southern Europe, or else by
plundering the monasteries. This would enable them to measure the
length of day approximately, and so, taken in conjunction with the sun,
be able to tell fairly correctly the direction of the cardinal points
of the compass.

