There are some who scoff at the idea that the Vikings discovered North
America. But there are first-rate authorities, among whom may be
reckoned Dr. Nansen himself, who are quite convinced that these men did
sail across the sea and land there. Certain incredulous people would
have us believe that an open craft such as the Viking type would never
last out a voyage like that across the Atlantic. But this supposition
is immediately refuted by the Norse craft which was built on the lines
and to the exact dimensions of the Gogstad Viking ship discovered in
1880. Rigged with a squaresail, with a jib added and without any other
ship as convoy, this replica was sailed from Bergen to Newport, Rhode
Island, in the year 1893. The voyage began on May 1, and the United
States were reached on June 13. She was commanded by Captain Magnus
Andersen, who had already, in 1886, crossed the Atlantic in an open
boat. Although bad weather was encountered, yet Captain Andersen and
his crew of eleven men reached Newport in safety. His ship proved that
the Viking type made a very fine seaboat, and furthermore that she was
fast even in the deep furrows of the ocean; for she did an average of
nine knots easily, but when the seas fitted her exactly she could reel
off her eleven knots.

For these old Vikings, intrepid mariners and pioneers of the sea, had
by their skill and experience been able to develop an improved type
of ship which combined the advantages of speed and seaworthiness.
In such craft they voyaged to places as far apart as Palestine and
Greenland. By their travels they completely changed the existing
ideas of geography. When they ceased to make merely coasting voyages
and took to the blue water, they were doing more than perhaps they
realised. They crossed the North Sea to the Shetlands and Orkneys, to
Britain and Ireland, to the Faroe Isles, to Iceland, to Greenland, and
finally to America. Just exactly when first the Northmen crossed the
North Sea cannot be determined; but some authorities believe that it
was undertaken before the Viking age. As early as the third century
of the Christian era, the Eruli sailed from Scandinavia over the seas
of Western Europe and ravaged Gaul and Spain, and even penetrated
during the fifth century to the Mediterranean as far as Italy. During
the sixth century the Vikings voyaged from Denmark to the land of the
Franks, but the first Viking expedition began in A.D. 793. In the year
999, Leif, the son of Eric the Red, sailed from Greenland via the
Hebrides to Norway. This is the first recorded time that such a lengthy
sea voyage was attempted, for prior to this the journey had been made
via Iceland. But it is also clear, from the sailing directions which
have come down to us for navigating the northern waters, that voyages
were made direct from Norway to Greenland. It was this same Leif who,
in the year A.D. 1000, discovered America.

