They were masters of cunning, too. Harek of Thiotta was coming along
one evening with his fleet “with the wind blowing a breeze. Then he let
strike sail and mast, and take down the vane, and wrap all the ship
above the water in grey hangings, and let men row on a few benches fore
and aft, but let most of the men sit low in the ship.” This somewhat
puzzled King Knut’s men, who wondered what ship it could be, for they
saw only few men and little rowing. Moreover, she seemed to be grey and
untarred, “like a ship bleached by the sun, and withal they saw that
the ship was much low in the water. But when Harek came forth into the
sound past the host, he let raise the mast and hoist sail, and let set
up gilded vanes, and the sail was white as snowdrift, and done with red
and blue bands.”

And here is another instance where the ships kept afloat during the
winter. The passage is interesting as showing that they shortened sail
by taking in a reef: “On Thomas-mass [December 21], before Yule, the
King put out of the haven, there being a right good fair wind somewhat
sharp. So then they sailed north coasting Jadar; the weather was wet,
and some fog driving about.” But Erling Skialgson sailed after him, and
because his long-ships went faster than the others, “he let reef the
sail and waited for his host.” But Olaf’s ships “were very water-logged
and soaked.” “He let call from ship to ship that men should lower the
sails and somewhat slowly, and take one reef out of them.” They slacked
away the halyards, then tucked in a reef, and then doubtless sweated up
the yard again.

In reading these Sagas, it is necessary to understand the different
species of craft which the Norsemen employed. Firstly, there were the
warships or dragons. Secondly, there were the long serpent or snake
class, which also were men-of-war. Thirdly, there were ships of burden,
ocean-going merchantmen, fishing boats, and small fry. The long-ship,
which was a man-of-war, was not suitable for freight-carrying on
those trading voyages to Ireland and elsewhere. But the kaupskip,
broad of beam and with ample freeboard, was built for service on the
island-sheltered waters of Norway and the Baltic. So also the knörr,
which was used for both ocean trading and overseas warfare, was wont
to sail as far away as to the Orkneys. Such a type was so big that
she could carry 150 men. It should be borne in mind that this was
essentially a sailing ship, while the long-ship was more for rowing.
The smallest of the long-ships were of twenty-five benches, i.e. for
a crew of fifty oarsmen; in other words, about the same as a Roman
penteconter. Some, however, were fitted with only twenty benches for
forty oars. The skuta type of warship rowed from fifteen to twenty oars
aside, but the snekkja, or long serpent class, carried from twenty
to thirty aside, and the skeid from thirty to thirty-five aside.
The word “skeid” signifies originally that it was a craft built of
split wood, or strake-built. This expression was used doubtless in
contradistinction to the craft which were merely hollowed out from the
tree. Sigurd, after scuttling his ships, caused Finns to build him two
cutters sinew-bound, which had no nails therein but had withies for
knees. These craft could each row a dozen men a side. They were so
fast that no ship could overtake them. The dragon type was so called
from the dragon’s head at the stem-head, and the animal’s tail which
ended the ship as the lotus-bud was wont on the ancient Egyptian craft.
The earliest mention of the dragon type dates from A.D. 868.

