The capture of the ship _Worm_--this was the _Little Worm_, and not her
bigger sister--happened on this wise: King Olaf stood to the northward
sailing with the land abroad. Wherever he went ashore he christened
the unbaptised. The time came when he turned his ships to the
southward, but it came to pass that then he was harassed by “a driving
storm with brine spray down the firth.” Finally, he spoke to Bishop
Sigurd, and asked him if he knew of any remedy. The bishop answered
that he would do what he could, provided God would strengthen his hands
to overcome the might of these weather fiends. The picture which the
Saga suggests is one that I believe has never yet been attempted by
any artist, but there is a fine subject for anyone who could depict
the northern blue mists, the high rocks, the sea, the great assembly
of Viking ships and men, the bright colours contrasted with the sombre
hues of atmosphere, the bishop in his vestments surrounded by these
stalwart storm warriors. “So took Bishop Sigurd all his mass-array
and went forth on to the prow of the king’s ship, and let kindle the
candles, and bore incense. Then he set up the rood in the prow of the
ship, and read out the gospel and many prayers, and sprinkled holy
water over all the ship. Then he bade unship the tilt and row in up
the firth.” Thereupon all the other ships followed the lead, and lo,
as soon as the men in the _Crane_ began to row, the crew felt no wind
whatever. The driving storm was gone. In that sudden calm the fleet
rowed quietly the one ship astern of the other, and so they arrived at
God Isles. There they came upon Raud the Unchristened, and he was put
to death with little enough mercy. His dragon-ship was captured, and
Olaf called her the _Worm_--the _Little Worm_--“because when the sail
was aloft then should that be as the wings of the dragon. The fairest
of all Norway was that ship.”

The Viking ships had no use for head winds. “But when they sought
east into the Wick,” runs the narrative elsewhere, “they got foul
winds and big, and lay-to in havens wide about, both in the out-isles
and in up the firths.” Dr. Eirikr Magnusson[21] believes that the
Halogalanders were in the art of navigation far ahead of the more
southerly Norwegians about the year A.D. 1000; and interprets the
following to indicate this much. For myself, I have a vague suspicion
that it may signify not so much navigation as seamanship, and that it
means that Raud understood the art of beating to windward. No doubt
these squaresail craft would not haul any nearer to the wind than seven
points, but these ships were in no great hurry to make quick passages.
They could go about on the other tack and so have--to quote the Saga’s
expression--the wind “at will.” This is the statement under discussion:
“Raud rowed out to sea with his dragon, and so let hoist sail; for ever
had he wind at will whithersoever he would sail, which thing came from
his wizardry.” It seems to me that this is exactly explained by beating
to windward when the breeze headed them.

