And how were they steered? The rudder was placed on the starboard
side, the round top of it being secured to the gunwale by means of
a loop which one may call the rudder-strap. At a proper distance
down, says Dr. Magnusson, a cone-shaped piece of wood was nailed
to the side of the boat, the top of the cone being plumb with the
outside of the gunwale. Through the rudder, where it took the form
of a broad oar-blade, a hole was made corresponding to one through
the cone-shaped piece of wood which went right through the side of
the boat. A cord drawn through the hole in the rudder and the conic
piece of wood, and made fast within board, gave to the rudder a fixed
position. By loosening the cord the rudder could be lifted at will
and taken inboard. Through the neck of the rudder a square hole was
made, into which fitted the end of the tiller, by means of which the
helmsman moving it towards him starboarded the rudder, and ported it by
performing the exact opposite.

There was a plank at the back of the seat of the helmsman against which
he could steady himself in handling the helm, just as many a steersman
on small craft to-day get support for controlling the tiller in a
seaway. This was known as the “staying board.” Thus “Einar shot at Earl
Eric, and the arrow smote the tiller-head above the head of the earl,
and went in up to the shaft binding. The earl looked thereon, and asked
if they wist who shot; and even therewith came another arrow so nigh
that it flew betwixt the earl’s side and his arm, and so on to the
staying-board of the steersman, and the point stood far beyond.”

We must picture in our minds the Norse steersman sitting with his face
to the starboard side, his hand on the tiller. The _stjornbordi_--or
steering side--was the starboard. The _bakbordi_ was the port side.
Why _bakbordi_? Because it was the board at the back of the helmsman
when he sat looking to starboard or steering side. And so to this
day, although no longer a ship has her rudder at the side, yet the
right-hand side of a ship is always the starboard.

