[Illustration: VIKING SHIP WITH AWNING UP READY FOR THE NIGHT.]

The crews of these ships slept under those “tilts” or awnings which
were spread across the ship in an inverted V-shape. In harbour the
tilts were spread over the entire vessel. But in less sheltered
anchorages, and when at sea, tilts were rigged over only portions of
the ship to afford sufficient protection to the men. But in all cases
these _tilts_ or _tjalds_ were struck before the ship went into action,
for the obvious reason that it was desirable to have the entire ship
clear for fighting. The food-supplies, both solid and fluid, were
carried in casks, and the mess system is well described in one of the
Sagas entitled “The Story of the Ere-Dwellers.” “In those days,” runs
the narrative, “was it the wont of chapmen to have no cooks, but the
messmates chose by lot amongst themselves who should have the ward of
the mess day by day. Then, too, was it the wont of all the midshipmen
to have their drink in common, and a cask should stand by the mast with
the drink therein, and a locked lid was over it. But some of the drink
was in tuns, and was added to the cask thence as soon as it was drunk
out.”

We know nothing as to whether these Norse ships possessed bilge pumps.
The probability is that they did not, but a bailing butt was certainly
part of their inventory. Evidently there was a well some distance aft,
into which any water shipped was allowed to drain and thence bailed
out, as the reader shall presently see from the following quotation.
The description refers to the time when King Harald manned his new
dragon-galley. “The said dragon he manned with his court-guard and
bareserks,” runs the Saga. “The stem men were the men most tried,
because they had with them the king’s banner; aft from the stem to the
bailing place was the forecastle, and that was manned by the bareserks.
Those only could get court-service with King Harald who were men
peerless both of strength and good heart and all prowess; with such
only was his ship manned.”

