Ptolemy made a wonderful improvement in cartographical representation
by introducing correction with converging meridians, this method having
been commenced by Hipparchus. But Ptolemy was singularly fortunate to
have been living at the time when the Roman Empire was at its height,
and so enabled to obtain a mass of geographical details through the
extensive administration of this far-reaching dominion.

In Northern Europe the mists had not yet cleared. It was a long time
before they did. It is not till the eighth century of our era that
there is any certain mention in literature concerning the voyaging to
the Arctic Circle. This was when the good monks from Ireland discovered
the Faroe Isles and Iceland after setting forth across the sea, and
settled down there, baptising the inhabitants and teaching them
Christianity. Indirectly, they were doing more than this: they were
linking up one portion of world that was unknown to or by the other.
Already King Arthur, by his conquest of Scandinavia, Ireland, Gothland,
Denmark, and other northern territories, had caused an addition to
geographical knowledge by intercommunication. “Now at length,” to
quote Hakluyt, “they are incorporated with us by the receiving of our
religion and sacraments, and by taking wives of our nation, and by
affinitie, and mariages.”

Add to these the northern voyages of Octher, King Edgar, together
with the frequent raids of the Norsemen and the increasing number of
missionaries, and it is easy to see the world’s geographical knowledge
accumulating. But these, again, were mostly coasting voyages; or, at
any rate, the voyagers were not out of sight of land for many days.
The Norse discoveries are, in fact, the first great achievement of the
western maritime world between the time of Constantine and the first
Crusade. We have already alluded so fully to their seamanship that it
remains only to remind the reader that as early as A.D. 787 they had
landed in our country; in 874 had begun to colonise Iceland; in 877
had sighted Greenland; and in 888, or thereabouts, had reached the
White Sea. In Southern Europe there was nothing comparable to this.
Notwithstanding that the workmanship of the Italian shipbuilders was as
good as, if not better than, the work of the Norsemen; notwithstanding,
also, that the latter were further away from civilisation and
scientific knowledge, yet for all that the Vikings were peering into
the Unknown World, while the Southerners were content to leave the
curtain to hide a little longer the wonders of the universe from the
eyes of mankind.

