[Illustration: THIRTEENTH-CENTURY MERCHANT SAILING SHIP.]

But still, in spite of the voyages of Viking and Venetian, the
Crusading expeditions, and the enterprising travels which had been
undertaken, yet the real progress in navigation, as a science and an
art, was made not by the sailors of Christendom, but by the Arabians.
The latter had calculated their tables of latitude and longitude by
astronomical observations. They had produced rough coast-charts; and
what was more, they had been using the compass and other nautical
instruments for some time. But thanks to the travel craze which had
set in, the Christian ships which were seen in the Mediterranean about
the beginning of the fifteenth century were supplied with the compass,
an astrolabe, a timepiece, and charts just as you would have found on
board an Arabian trading to the Indian Ocean. At length the Christian
seamen overcame their prejudice, and were glad to avail themselves of
the magnetised needle; but its use was by no means universal.

Bear in mind, also, the wave of the New Learning that was spreading
over Europe. Mathematics and astronomy had already begun to be studied
in Portugal at the beginning of the fourteenth century. And with regard
to cartography, or map-making, something new was happening. Already
by 1306 a Venetian map had been made which put into form the ideas
which inspired the first Italian voyages in the Atlantic. These charts
were made for the purpose of recording the discoveries of the great
contemporary seamen. It is indeed surprising to note how accurate
these charts really are. The Italians with all their artistic ability
were now the great map-makers, and they managed to produce a number of
portolani which were of the greatest use to the mariners and merchants
of the Mediterranean. These were made by means of the knowledge and
assistance of seamen, and were intended to be of service to the latter
in their navigation.

[Illustration: FOURTEENTH-CENTURY PORTOLANO OF THE MEDITERRANEAN.

