Sagres was a kind of international bureau created for the future
development of the world, but especially and primarily it had for its
object the reaching of India. Henry’s countrymen who had been about
over the continent of Europe had encountered in the markets of Bruges
and London travellers and merchants from other parts of the world, and
in course of conversation managed to pick up a good deal of information
regarding the overland trade to India and the Far East. Henry’s
chief-of-staff was his own brother Pedro, who also had travelled
extensively and had visited all the countries in the west of Europe.
He, too, had come back not empty-handed, but with maps and plans, books
and much verbal information regarding the places visited. All this
information went to swell the general geographical knowledge which
Henry was accumulating and systematising.

Close to Sagres was the naval arsenal of Lagos, over which the Prince
was governor. Here he built those caravels which were to carry out
the theories that he had worked out for his captains. On their return
he set to work to sift the data which his ships and men had brought
back with them, to correct the maps according to this new information,
to readjust the instruments, to compare the accounts of travellers
ancient and modern, and then to hand the conclusions of all these
to the captains of the next ships that went forth to explore. Thus
the Sagres naval college was at once highly theoretical and highly
practical. It was also founded on a strong religious basis. Besides the
palace, observatory, and study which he built for himself, Henry had
erected a chapel, a village for his helpers, and among the instructions
to those whom he sent out to explore was the admonition to bring
Christianity into all new territory. Here were men engaged in teaching
navigation to seamen; here were others instructing pupils how to draw
maps and nautical instruments. Even Arabians and Jews were imported
to give the Portuguese the benefit of their learning in astronomical
and mathematical subjects. It was indeed a cosmopolitan crowd which
collected at this Atlantic village. Orientals and Portuguese, veteran
pilots from Italy, shipbuilders, seamen, and students of all kinds,
cartographers and instrument-makers. But they were assembled there
for one purpose. Led by the example and patience and single-hearted
enthusiasm of their governor, who guided their labours with prudence
and forethought, this little band was to be the nucleus which should
form that magnificent race of Portuguese seamen who were to achieve so
much during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.

