We cannot but admire Prince Henry for his admirable enthusiasm, for his
patience, his wisdom, and his solid hard work. Nevertheless we respect
him possibly even more for having begun at the right end. Instead of
sending out his fleets to blunder their way along, they set forth more
adequately fitted both as to ships and men than any which had ever put
to sea since the beginning of the world. In the schools of Sagres, the
shipyards of Lagos, and the voyages of Prince Henry’s ships, we have
one of the finest combinations of theory and practice which the mind
of man could ever devise. It must indeed have been a most fascinating
institution. From this school graduated a fearless race of sailors,
who for their daring and enterprise have never been surpassed either
in Elizabethan or Nelsonian times when we consider the limitations of
their equipment.

Here at last, then, the seaman’s art, for the first time in the history
of the world, had a chance of being taught properly. From 1415 to 1460,
with the exception of brief intervals, Prince Henry remained here doing
this splendid work till death released him from his labours. What then
was the aim of his life’s labour? What, in fact, were the results which
accrued? Let us see first of all his aims.

He wished to find a way round Africa to India partly for the love of
the new knowledge itself, just as any scientist shares the world’s
delight in having discovered some invaluable invention. But also it
would mean greater dominion, and Portugal would add to her distinctive
position among the nations of the world. Already at least a century
before his time it had been suggested by Raymond Lulli, a famous
Majorcan alchemist, who lived from 1235 to 1315, that India might
probably be reached by rounding Africa on the west and east, and it
is curious how that idea persisted without any apparent reason or
justification before it was actually proved to be correct. Secondly,
Henry wanted to find out what was the shape of the world, and to put an
end to the rival theories which existed. Marco Polo had done something
for the southern coast-line of Asia, and the shape of Africa had been
fairly guessed by the portolano, as already seen. On the east coast
of Africa there were the Arab settlements, and there was a vague sort
of knowledge concerning the west coast so far south as Guinea. This
information had been obtained through the Sahara caravan trade.

