And then we come to that ever memorable year of 1497, when all these
preliminary voyages sink into insignificance before that of Vasco
da Gama, who doubled the cape on November 20, then sailed to the
northward, discovered Mozambique, Sofala, and Melinda; and finally,
with the help of an Indian pilot, crossed the ocean from Melinda to
Calicut in twenty-three days, so that this Vasco da Gama had the
supreme honour of being the first seaman in the world’s history, so
far as any record has been preserved to us, to make the entire lengthy
voyage from Western Europe to the land of the Indian treasure.

With the seamanship and navigation of Columbus we shall proceed to deal
presently. Although he comes within the fifteenth century, and his
famous voyage was really concerned with a desire to find India, yet it
will be more convenient to be able to watch his methods with greater
detail in the following chapter. He is the connecting link between
the fifteenth-century Henry the Navigator and that wonderful epoch of
sixteenth-century seamen. It would not be inaccurate to describe him
as the last of the medieval sailors and the first of the moderns. But
our present aim is, now that we have seen the wonderful improvement in
navigation which had set in, to obtain some idea of the contemporary
seamanship in the Middle Ages.

From the coming of the Viking type of craft to the universal adoption
of the caravel class of vessel there was but little variation in the
kind of seamanship. In the Mediterranean the lateen sail involved a
knowledge of fore-and-aft seamanship, but while this was used chiefly
on the smaller craft, yet the bigger ships carried a squaresail forward
and the lateen aft. This was the beginning of the caravel, which was
to develop into a three- and even four-masted ship, with always a
lateen at the stern. But in Northern Europe, where the single (square)
sail type of ship and the Viking-like hull had continued without
intermission and with only slight alterations such as the addition of
stern- and fore-castles, the seamanship was practically identical with
that of the Norsemen.

