In what did this seamanship consist? It was exceedingly simple, and
may be summed up briefly thus: The ships were made fast by big anchors
and thick cables. This is evident from the pictures of the Bayeux
tapestry. They quanted themselves off into deep water by pushing from
the stern with a pole. The men then rowed with their oars, and as soon
as clear of the shallows up went the mast and sail, the latter with
its yard being fixed permanently to the former. A number of the crew
would haul on to the backstays aft as the mast and sail were brought
into position, the mast being inserted in its step and tabernacle.
Apparently there were no braces, but the sail was controlled with a
sheet from each clew. Similarly when making land and about to bring up
or beach the vessel, sail and mast were bodily lowered and allowed to
come forward, part of the crew remaining aft to steady the mast and
sail as they came down to the deck. The steering was done by a single
paddle or side-rudder placed on the starboard side. As a protection
for the oarsmen a line of shields--doubtless those which they actually
wore in battle--ran round the gunwale overlapping each other. A small
jolly-boat was sometimes towed astern for landing from the bigger type
of craft, while for greater convenience a look-out man was sent to the
top of the mast. This is distinctly shown in the Bayeux tapestry.

It is more than likely that North European seamanship had not reached
a very high stage of perfection, excepting among the Norsemen, at
this time. Otherwise William the Conqueror would probably not have
lost part of his fleet in a summer’s gale off the French coast when
preparing for his invasion of England. Nor, some years later, would
the _Blanche Nef_ have been handled so negligently among the rocks
round Cape Barfleur as to founder. It is pretty clear that there were
too much drink and frivolity on board; but a careful skipper would
scarcely have allowed such a dereliction of duty if he realised fully
what sort of a task it was to take a ship through such tricky waters
as the Race of Catteville. But the finest and, in fact, the only way
to make good seamen is to take them for long voyages. And so, in spite
of the fact that less than a century and a half later the type of
ships had scarcely changed, yet there is an evident improvement in the
seaman’s skill. For everyone must concede that to take a fleet of over
a hundred twelfth-century ships on such a long voyage as from Dartmouth
to the Holy Land was in itself a very fine feat of endurance and skill.
Considering the nature of these craft, the absence of navigational
facilities, the crowded condition of their hulls, the bad weather they
had to encounter, the sufferings of their crews, and a host of minor
difficulties which had to be borne, one can only wonder that they ever
reached their destination and returned to their native country. Richard
I was certainly a seaman. You will remember that on that terrible night
of Easter Eve, April 13, 1190, his fleet were in the Mediterranean and
caught in a heavy gale. His mariners were prostrate with sea-sickness,
some of his ships were ungovernable, the horses in the holds of others
would be causing the crews endless anxiety in addition to the troubles
of the wind and wave. But not a ship was lost. They all came through
the ordeal. All night long Richard kept a light burning at his masthead
and hove-to, waiting for his chickens to gather round the mother hen.

