[Illustration: THE FLEET OF RICHARD I SETTING FORTH FROM DARTMOUTH
BOUND FOR THE CRUSADES]

If ever a fleet of ships was tried it was this expedition from the
Devonshire village. They were not many days out and had not yet
said farewell to the Bay of Biscay before they were caught in bad
weather and the fleet scattered. But it is certain that this fleet
accomplished what it did partly owing to the fact that every day at sea
gave them greater experience, and partly because they were well found,
or as well found as ever ships of that period could be. We can note
the mind of a far-seeing man in the care with which these craft were
fitted out. Thus, for example, in bad weather there was every chance
of the steering oar being carried away or being broken into half. To
guard against such an awkward possibility each ship went forth from the
cliffs of Dartmouth with a number of spare steering oars. Another very
likely article to carry away on a long voyage, involving bringing-up in
all sorts of places, was the anchor. Each principal ship, therefore,
carried no less than thirteen of such, though it should be added that
of these some consisted of grapnels used in getting alongside the enemy
and fighting hand to hand. There were spare oars also, two spare sails,
three sets of halyards, stays, and other ropes--everything, in fact,
except the mast and the ship’s boat was carried in duplicate. There
were knights in armour, infantry, horses, and victuals for a whole year
to be stowed away in these ships, so a great deal of thought had to be
expended.

If we had been able to look down on to the harbour of one of the Cinque
Ports of the thirteenth century and watched some of the contemporary
ships getting under way, we should have been struck with the extreme
simplicity of their seamanship. And in the fewest words I propose
now to sketch very roughly the manner in which such craft would put
to sea. I am assuming nothing which cannot be verified by actually
existing historical data. Picture, then, a modified Viking type of ship
with good freeboard, high stem- and stern-posts, with a castellated
structure at each end, and a mast stepped about midships and supported
by shrouds and backstays. The crews go on board. These consist of the
masters or “rectores.” Under them come the steersmen or “sturmanni,”
who were responsible for the piloting of the ship. They would possess
more knowledge than anyone else of their own waters and adjacent havens.

