The crew consisted of three classes. First of all were the “galiotæ”
or galley-men. These I understand to be the men who did the rowing as
in the Viking ships. The second class consisted of “marinelli,” who
may have been the fighting men of the ship; and the third division was
found in the “nautæ” or sailors, who were obviously the men that went
aloft, got up anchor, set and furled sail, worked the sheets, and did
the deck work. On these ships there were usually about forty hands
carried; but there are instances of seventy being the full complement.
In such cases as the last-mentioned there was a superior officer
carried in addition to the usual officers and crew. Life on board these
ships was certainly very different from that which the modern seaman
finds on the sail-less steamship. But these rude, virile seamen were
well paid for their work; they had plenty of excitement to keep up
their spirits, they were given their food and wine, even though their
clothes were scanty and probably had to be found by themselves. But
when they were wounded they had the satisfaction of being pensioned off.

Having repaired on board, then, we see the “rector” at the helm, while
some of the crew are forward hauling up the ship’s cable by the bows.
This cable leads aft, where it passes round a windlass that is turned
by other members of the crew with handspikes. Meanwhile one of the
crew by the aid of his hands and knees climbs up the backstays to
let loose the lashing which keeps the squaresail furled to the yard.
Note that the sail is not lowered or raised to or from deck, but kept
permanently aloft. Before he has allowed the canvas to be unfurled,
and before the anchor has been broken out from the ground, a couple of
trumpeters mount the top of the stern-castle and blow their notes to
warn any incoming craft that they are emerging. It is exactly analogous
to the blowing of a modern steamship’s syren when the big liner is
clearing from her port.

The thirteenth-century ship, then, puts to sea. She has both oars and
a sail, she has an able crew, she has a good, strong hull of a healthy
seaworthy type. She is ready for anything that comes along. If the wind
fails, then she can send a man aloft to furl the sail and her crew can
get out their oars. If it comes on to blow very hard indeed, she can
take in one, two, or three reefs by means of reef-points as to-day.
And then when the enemy is espied and the time comes for battle, the
fighting men can prepare swords, axes, bows and arrows, lances, and
engines for throwing heavy stones, while some of the men go aloft and
climb into the fighting top, from which they are ready to hurl down
those heavy stones which crashed through an enemy’s decks. For it is
certain from contemporary illustrations that these ships were now no
longer mere open craft.

