In their fighting methods brute force was chiefly relied upon; but
not always. That deadly mixture known as Greek fire, which was some
sort of mixture containing principally pitch and sulphur, was a very
efficacious method of routing the enemy when the methods of grapnels,
swords, arrows, and stones were not all-availing. As soon as this
Greek fire was exposed to the air it became ignited, and there flowed
a stream of fire over ships and sea creating wholesale panic. It could
not be extinguished by water; only vinegar or sand or earth could
put it out. Wherever it went it burnt up hulls, spars, and sails,
suffocating the terrified crews in a very short time. Ramming, as a
naval manœuvre, was far from obsolete in the Middle Ages, as we know
from actual incidents in literature and pictorial representation.

It would not be correct to assert that there was a total disregard
of tactics in medieval times. When Richard was cruising with his
fleet in the Mediterranean at the time of the Crusades, he caused
his ships to sail in eight separate lines, each line being within
trumpet call of the other. Richard himself was in the eighth line as
commander-in-chief. Treatises on naval tactics had been written by
Mediterranean experts, but I do not think that there is any evidence
for supposing that the English seamen ever learnt such a thing until
Richard’s ships went to the Mediterranean. So much happened for
improving maritime matters subsequent to that Crusade that we need not
be surprised to find, less than thirty years later, the English seamen
for the first time in northern waters exhibiting an appreciation of all
that tactics meant in battle. We have not space here to go into the
battles, but you will find the first instance of this new knowledge
in that naval encounter which took place in August of 1217 off the
South Foreland. Notwithstanding that the fleet of Eustace the Monk was
numerically far stronger than ours, yet by clever tactical manœuvres
our ships and men not only prevented his from landing, but inflicted
a heavy slaughter and defeat upon the invaders. The English commander
was Hubert de Burgh, and to his cleverness the success was due. Sixteen
large, well-armed craft were his ships, with twenty smaller ships;
or a total of thirty-six. Eustace had eighty, or more than twice as
many. The key to the victory was simply this. When the enemy’s ships
were seen to be sailing with a fresh southerly breeze from the French
coast, the English fleet put to sea, stood on till they were well to
windward, and then easing their sheets bore down on to the invaders
with a fair wind, hooked on to them with grapnels, shot at them with
arrows and threw unslaked lime at the Frenchmen, with the result that
the breeze carried both arrows and lime exactly where the English had
wanted--to leeward. With this confusion the English boarded them and
hacked away at the halyards so that mast and sail came down, burying
many on the confused deck. After that the victory was easy.

