During the night, as these ships sailed along over the heaving
Mediterranean and Adriatic with a great belly of canvas reaching down
from the massive lateen yard, strict silence was maintained on board.
After dark not even the boatswain was allowed to use his whistle, nor
were bells to be sounded--not an avoidable noise of any kind was to be
suffered lest the presence of the richly laden trading ship should be
suddenly revealed to some pirate hovering in the vicinity. The earliest
Venetian statutes affecting ships belong to the year 1172, and these,
after being considerably amplified in the thirteenth century, were
again added to in the fifteenth, after the conquest of Constantinople.
Every possible detail seems to have been regulated in connection with
these merchant ships. The general supervision was attended to with
the most meticulous care. The construction of these merchant ships
themselves, the quantity and quality of their cargo, the number of
their crew, their anchors, ropes, and gear generally, all came under
this control.

Additional to the crew there were carried a couple of scribes on each
of these trading ships, for the purpose of keeping an exact account
of the freights. The skipper, or _padrone_, was compelled to be on
board his ship by the hour of departure, and was not allowed to quit
his ship till she reached her port. The accommodation for passengers
and crew was probably but primitive, and they apparently catered for
themselves; for each man, whether one of the crew or the passengers,
was suggestively permitted to bring with him a mattress and cushion,
a trunk for his belongings, a flask of wine, a flask of water,
together with flour and biscuit. Even in the early seventeenth century
the men on the Spanish warships used to cook each for himself, in
contradistinction to the English seamen, who had their meals prepared
by the ship’s cook. Though the Venetian ships up till the fifteenth
century did not dare to venture out into the “Green Sea of Darkness,”
as the Arabs termed the Atlantic, yet we cannot afford to despise ships
and men who regularly traded between the Adriatic and the Levant. Even
a modern sailing ship would have some difficulty in beating the passage
which one of these craft made in the year 1408, when she sailed from
Venice to Jaffa in thirty-three days, calling at various ports on the
way.

