In the light of modern knowledge, modern practice, and modern nautical
instruments, some of the errors in navigation of those days may
seem to us ridiculous, until we recollect that these men were really
fumbling in the darkness with nothing to guide them except moderate
knowledge, inefficient aids, and their own natural instincts. Long
before Christopher Columbus set out to the westward he had studied
cosmography and astrology at the University of Pavia. He had also
visited Lisbon, whither the fame of the achievements of Prince Henry
the Navigator’s illustrious captains had attracted other capable
seamen, among whom were such men as Da Gama, and his own elder brother
Bartolomeo. At this time Lisbon was still the centre of all nautical
and geographical enterprise. Here Bartolomeo was working as the head of
a school of cartography, and here Christopher had every opportunity for
studying the charts and logs of the greatest living sea captains after
Bartolomeo had returned home. He had the dual advantage of learning
all that both Genoa and Lisbon could teach him. Furthermore, he was a
practical seaman, and had already sailed as far to the north as Iceland.

We need not stop to inquire whether Columbus was aware that already
many years before his time the Vikings had discovered North America.
It is at least most improbable that he was aware of this fact. What is
certain is that, fortified with all the nautical lore obtainable from
the greatest living Peninsular sea captains, he set out with a firm
conviction that the world was a sphere, and he was hoping to prove that
conviction. Himself a gifted cartographer, he would make his charts as
he went along. From Palos, then the most flourishing port of Andalusia,
a village that contained little else among its inhabitants than some
of the finest seamen-explorers in the world, he set sail with a fair
wind on August 3--a Friday--1492, in the _Santa Maria_. Accompanying
her were the two smaller craft _Nina_ and _Pinta_. “Carabela” was
not then applied to a particular species of ship, but only to certain
vessels of medium tonnage suitable for the diverse purposes of fishing,
coasting, and exploring.[44] In the Columbine Library at Seville there
is a map of Española drawn with a pen. In two places are seen outline
sketches of three sailing craft. Competent critics affirm that these
sketches were made by Columbus, and depict his squadron of three during
his first voyage to the West in 1492. If this opinion be correct,
then it is certain that the first ship was three-masted, so was the
second--doubtless the _Santa Maria_, the biggest of the three--but the
third ship is only two-masted. The first and second ships have a small
square foresail on the foremast; square mainsail and topsail on the
main, with a lateen on the mizzen. But the third ship has a lateen on
both masts.

