The _Santa Maria_ carried a crew of seventy, together with artillery
and stores enough for one year. In addition she had a large amount of
merchandise, which she could barter with the natives. Her displacement
has been estimated as about 200 tons, and some modern writers have
suggested that this was all too small a ship to cross the Atlantic.
Columbus, however, thought otherwise; for on his second voyage he had
demanded smaller vessels, his reason being that those of his first
expedition, on account of their size and draught, had caused him so
much anxiety. As to the canvas which the _Santa Maria_ carried, this
matter is instantly settled by reference to Columbus’s own log. If
we refer to his entry dated Wednesday, October 24, we find that: “I
remained thus with little wind until the afternoon, when it began to
blow fresh. I set all the sails in the ship, the mainsail with two
bonnets, the foresail, spritsail, mizzen, maintopsail, and the boat’s
sail on the poop.” (The bonnets were additional pieces of canvas laced
on to the foot of the sail)[45].

The time on board was evidently kept by hour-glasses of half or a
whole hour. Thus under date of Tuesday, January 22, when homeward
bound, his log reads: “They made 8 miles an hour during five glasses
... afterwards they went N.E. by N. for six glasses.... Then during
four glasses of the second watch N.E. at six miles an hour.” But the
reader must be cautious not to accept the speed given as conclusive.
One of the greatest drawbacks to navigation in those days was the
absence of any instrument which would record the speed through the
water. The log had yet to be invented, and the mariner could only make
a conjectural estimate of the ship’s speed by looking over the side and
noting the time it took the bubbles to come aft from the bow, or by
throwing a piece of wood overboard from the bows and noticing how long
it took for the stern to be abreast of that object. Many a steamship
traveller gambling on the ship’s speed does the same thing to-day; many
a fore-and-aft sailorman with no patent log still employs a similar
method.

