Columbus’s journal shows the kind of helmsman which he had to put up
with. On September 9, when the ship’s course was west, the narrator
on board wrote: “The sailors steered badly, letting the ship fall off
to N.E., and even more; respecting which the Admiral complained many
times.” On September 13 Columbus observed a variation in the compass.
“On this day, at the commencement of the night, the needles turned a
half point to N.W., and in the morning they turned somewhat more N.W.”
For up till then no one had observed the variation of the needle.

[Illustration: FIFTEENTH-CENTURY CARAVEL.

Drawn from a woodcut after a delineation by Columbus in the Latin
translation of his letter dated March 1, 1493, to Don Raphael de Sanxis
(Treasurer of the King of Spain), in the Library at Milano.

(See next plate.)]

No navigator could have been more careful than Columbus. Ever on the
alert, he was far too anxious about the safety of his fleet to neglect
one single precaution. As they voyaged, the difference in the saltness
of the sea was noted; and though for eleven days the wind blew steadily
from aft so that the sails required no trimming, yet all the while
Columbus was busy with astrolabe and sounding lead endeavouring to fix
his position in regard to the land which they had long since left. From
Wednesday, February 13, till the following Saturday, he never slept
a wink, being far too anxious to leave the navigation to others. The
pilots of the _Nina_ and _Pinta_ on the voyage out used to work out
their positions for themselves. On September 19 the _Nina_ made the
Canaries to be 440 leagues astern, the _Pinta_ estimated the distance
as 420, but on board Columbus’s ship the reckoning was 400 leagues,
and this was the most correct of the three. (It should be added that
Columbus used Italian miles, reckoning four Italian miles to one
league.) He compared notes with the pilots under him, and manœuvred
his ship so that the captain of the _Pinta_ was able to pass his chart
on board the _Santa Maria_ at the end of a line. Columbus, after
conferring with his own pilots and mariners, plotted on the chart the
position of the ship. Here and there all the way through Columbus’s
journal, both in those lines written by his own hand and in those in
another handwriting, there rises up, quite clearly, evidence of the
knowledge which this man had been collecting before setting out. “The
admiral was aware,” says the Journal, “that most of the islands held by
the Portuguese were discovered by the flight of birds.” Just as the
Viking seamen had discovered land in exactly the reverse manner--by
letting loose birds from the ship.

