The _Santa Maria_, with her high poop and forecastle, was not a
particularly dry ship. On September 8, when outward bound, her log
admits that near Teneriffe she “took in much sea over the bows.” But
whether that was through bad seamanship or bad luck one cannot say. It
is certain that, at any rate, the crew were very far from perfect in
their art; otherwise the _Santa Maria_ would never have been wrecked
in that totally inexcusable manner. It was not the fault of Columbus.
He had not had any rest for two days and a night, and those of us who
have been ceaselessly on watch for that time, know how great a strain
it puts on a man’s eyes and nerves and physical endurance. So, as
the wind was very light, Columbus went below at eleven o’clock that
night. It was so beautifully fine, and the sea was so calm, that the
steersman also was tempted to sleep; and, giving the tiller in charge
of a boy, he shut his eyes and dozed off. This was distinctly contrary
to Columbus’s orders, for the boys were forbidden ever to touch the
helm. At midnight, you will remember, there was a flat calm, but still
imperceptibly the poor _Santa Maria_ was being carried on to a sandbank
by the current. Very gently she took the ground, but when the boy
noticed that the helm refused to move, but that the tide was rushing
by the ship and tumbling over the shoal, he became alarmed and cried
out. Up came Columbus from his cabin under the poop, who, taking in
the situation at a glance, began to give his orders in a cool and
seaman-like manner. The first command showed that he knew his business,
when he had ordered a boat on the poop to be lowered, and the crew to
“lay out an anchor astern,” as the log states, to haul her off. But the
men in the boat, being less anxious for the safety of the ship than for
their own bodies, paid no regard to the kedging of the _Santa Maria_,
but rowed off to the next ship. Then, finally, Columbus was compelled
to order the masts to be cut away, and the ship to be lightened; but
it was of no avail. The water rose inside, and her timbers opened. But
right to the end Columbus the discoverer showed that he was every bit
as fine a seaman as he was a clever navigator.

