When getting under way, the _Santa Maria_ shipped her anchor by means
of the fore yard-arm. In those days there was of course no steering
wheel, but the tiller came right in under the quarter-deck, and a bar
was attached to the forward end of the tiller. There is and has been
for so many centuries such a close relation between ships and hammocks
that it is interesting to observe that hammocks were introduced by
Columbus and his companions after contact with the West Indians, who
were accustomed to use them. We cannot, indeed, envy the life of the
seamen on these Columbine ships. There was certainly a galley made of
brick with an iron cross-piece, but the food, which consisted of bacon,
beans, salt fish, cheese, and bread, was, thanks to the heat and damp
of the hold, in a very bad condition.

We shall speak in greater detail on a later page concerning the
astrolabe, but whilst we are considering these fifteenth-century ships
and the surprisingly good landfalls which Columbus made, it is worth
while to remember that observations were frequently made only with
great difficulty. “The North Star,” says the log, “appeared very high,
as it does off Cape St. Vincent. The Admiral was unable to take the
altitude either with the astrolabe or with the quadrant, because the
rolling caused by the waves prevented it.” We cannot be positively sure
of all the crew which sailed on board the _Santa Maria_, for some of
the papers which could have helped the historian are missing. But, in
addition to Columbus, she carried one master, two pilots, a surgeon,
a quartermaster, a clerk, an interpreter, a carpenter, a caulker, a
cooper, a steward, a gunner, and a bugler, as well as the gentlemen
adventurers, their servants, and the seamen.

[Illustration: FIFTEENTH-CENTURY CARAVEL.

This is the same ship as in the preceding plate, but shows mizzen set.]

There was a never-failing fear of fire on these ships, and stringent
rules forbade lights after dark, except one for the helmsman and
one below deck when carefully protected by a lantern. Columbus’s
ship carried a lantern at the stern, mica being used at first and
subsequently glass. There was a strong religious atmosphere that must
not be lost sight of in considering the ship life as exhibited on board
Columbus’s fleet. Dominating the whole expedition was the intention to
glorify God, to spread His kingdom on earth. As you read through this
log you find the crew mustering to sing the “Salve” before the statue
of Our Lady--“Stella Maris.” On her festivals, and on such historic
occasions as when he made land, Columbus was wont to dress ship. So,
too, before the expedition left the mother-land for the Indies, every
man made his will and went to confession and communion, so that he
might come on board in a state of grace. And there were stringent rules
on board to prevent blasphemy, excessive gambling, or doing anything to
the dishonour of the king.

