It will be remembered that the _Nina_ had started out originally as a
lateener, but this triangular-shaped sail was changed at Grand Canary
to a squaresail before crossing the Atlantic. To “sail on a bowline”
was to sail on a wind. In those days, when the cut of the squaresail
was very bad, bowlines were really necessary for stretching the sails
so that they set a flat surface without too much belly. The _Pinta_ was
apparently all right when running before the wind, but not much good
close-hauled, owing to the fact that the mizzen-mast could not endure
the strain. And similarly with reference to the second statement,
Columbus makes it perfectly clear that these vessels had to be sailed
“ramping full,” as we should say nowadays; it was useless to try to
“pinch” them.




CHAPTER IX

THE EARLY TUDOR PERIOD


I make no apology to the reader for having taken up so much of his time
in a consideration of the methods which obtained during the time of
Christopher Columbus, not merely because by his splendid seamanship and
navigation a new world was revealed to the old, but because of the two
arts in question at the time when the Middle Ages were beginning to ebb
into obscurity, he was one of the finest if not the very best exponent.
Not that he was very amply rewarded for his wondrous achievements.
Although it is true he did receive other remuneration, yet his pay was
only at the rate of 1600 francs per annum, and that of his two captains
was but 960 francs. The crew’s wages were from 12 to 25 francs a month
in addition to their mess allowance.

But now we find ourselves in the sixteenth century. Thanks to the new
interest in nautical matters which had been aroused by Prince Henry the
Navigator, thanks to the marvellous and true yarns which ocean-going
skippers brought back of their discoveries, there began a new sort
of profession for men who were at all attracted to the sea. It was a
profession which, obviously, could not exist for many, nor last for
many centuries. But for those who were wearied of shore monotony, who
had ambition and dash and loved adventure, there was a keen fascination
in becoming one of that great band of “new land seekers.” Charles V,
you will remember, became King of Spain in the year 1517, while the
period of 1485 to 1547 was covered by the reigns of Henry VII and Henry
VIII of England. Not till the year 1555 did Charles V retire into the
monastery of Yuste. Besides the influence of these three remarkable men
at a critical time of the world’s history, there was also roaming over
Europe that Renaissance movement which, checked here and there, could
not be utterly constrained when it spread itself over shipping. Or, to
change altogether the metaphor, spring was in the air: the buds were
about to burst forth into the glorious flowers of new colonies.

