[Illustration: SIXTEENTH-CENTURY CARAVEL AT ANCHOR.

After the Woodcut of Hansen Burgmair.]

And since it was obvious that discovery had to be made by traversing
long expanses of ocean, and that this could only be done by a sound
knowledge of navigation, those in authority were not slow to realise
that lectures and instruction on this subject at home meant presently
an increase of territory and wealth across the seas. Prince Henry on
his promontory had been the first to grasp this. Now also Charles V not
only established a Pilot Major for the examination of those who sought
to take ships to the West Indies, but also founded a lecture on the art
of navigation which was given in the Contractation House at Seville.
Those anxious to qualify as pilots had to learn thoroughly the use of
the astrolabe and quadrant, and obtain a thorough grasp of the theory
and practice of sailing a ship from one port to another out of sight of
land. For this instruction they had to pay fees, but it more than
repaid them many times over when they were able to bring back such
valuable commodities. Furthermore, as experience gains knowledge, so
every voyage taught them something of their art which hitherto they had
not known--the direction of a current, the state of the moon when high
tide occurred at such and such an hour, the depth of those new harbours
they had entered, the position of the outlying shoals, the landmarks on
shore, the temper of the natives, the kind of commodities which could
be obtained in the districts, and so on. The pilots brought all these
details home at the end of every voyage, made the necessary corrections
in the charts (and this not by choice, but by compulsion), so that
always there was being compiled a set of sailing directions and an ever
improving bundle of charts which were simply invaluable to State and
seamen alike.

Thus also there came to be published treatises and manuals on the
seaman’s art, for the instruction of a community that numbered very
few sailors in proportion to its landsmen. Such authors as Martin
Cortes, Alonso de Chavez, Hieronymo de Chavez, Roderigo Zamorano in
time wrote these works, and their influence not merely on Spain, but
upon England, was considerable, until the English seamen of the time
of Elizabeth had produced such nautical experts of their own that they
were able to write better books themselves. But even prior to that
time England had begun to see the wisdom of Spain; and Henry VIII,
following the example of Charles V, “for the increase of knowledge in
his Seamen, with princely liberalities erected three severall Guilds or
brotherhoods, the one at Deptford here upon the Thames, the other at
Kingston upon Hull, and the third at Newcastle upon Tine.” So, indeed,
states Hakluyt. That at Deptford was licensed in 1513, “in honour of
the Holy Trinity and St. Clement in the Church of Deptford Stronde for
reformation of the Navy lately much decayed by admission of young men
without experience, and of Scots, Flemings, and Frenchmen as loadsmen.”
Navy is used here in its literal sense, meaning shipping as a whole.
The word “loadsmen”--otherwise “leadsmen”--was the customary expression
in the North of Europe for pilot. To this day the Dutch word for pilot
is “loods,” “lood” being the Dutch for lead. What does this signify?
It shows--does it not?--that until, thanks to Spain, the astrolabe
began to be used in Northern Europe, the pilot was not so much he
who found his way by fixing his position from the heavenly bodies,
but he who felt his way by the sounding of the lead. In a sentence,
then, whilst of course the lead and line are essential even to modern
navigation, yet historically they belong to the Middle Ages and right
back to Greece and even earlier; while the astrolabe and the finding of
a ship’s latitude are essentially the beginning of that new order of
things which we have already noted. So long as ships were content to
do little more than coasting they had no need of an astrolabe; but as
a lead and line are not much good to one who navigates the Atlantic to
the West Indies, so the new species of voyaging coincided with the new
instrument for ascertaining a ship’s position.

