[Illustration: A SIXTEENTH-CENTURY ASTROLABE.

This instrument, in the S. Kensington Museum, is supposed actually to
have been on board one of the ships of the Spanish Armada.]

[Illustration: ASTROLABE USED BY THE ENGLISH NAVIGATORS OF THE
SIXTEENTH CENTURY.]

What, then, was the astrolabe? It was an instrument used for taking
the altitude of the sun and stars. For two hundred years before it was
used by the Christian seamen of the Mediterranean, it had been employed
by the Arabian pilots in the eastern seas. The derivation of such a
curious word is not without interest. The Arabic is “asthar-lab,” and
this in turn came from the two Greek words, ἀστήρ and λαμβανω, meaning
“to take a star.” It consisted of a flat brass ring, some 15 inches
in diameter, of which an excellent illustration can here be seen.
It was graduated along the rim in degrees and minutes, fitted with
two sights. There was a movable index which turned on the centre and
marked the angle of elevation. When the mariner wished to take the
height of the sun with this instrument he proceeded as follows: The sun
being near the meridian or south, the pilot observed the same until
it reached its greatest height. Then, holding the ring on one of his
fingers, he turned the alhidada up and down until he saw the shadow
of the sun pass through both the sights thereof, being sure that the
astrolabe hung upright. The astrolabe was best for taking the height
of the sun when the sun was very high at 60, 70, or 80 degrees; for
the sun, coming near “unto your zenith,” has great power of light for
piercing the two sights of the alhidada of the astrolabe, and then it
was not good to use the cross-staff (reference to which will be made
below), because the sun hurt a man’s eyes and was also too high for the
cross-staff. Furthermore the astrolabe, was a more correct method than
that of the cross-staff.

It was thanks to the aid of Martin Behaim, a distinguished cosmographer
who came to Lisbon to co-operate with the learned men there assembled,
that an improved _sea_ astrolabe was adapted for the purpose of
determining the distance from the Equator, by means of the altitude of
the sun or stars at sea. There had, indeed, been in use for some time
a _land_ astrolabe for finding the latitude of a place, and it was but
a natural advance that this instrument should be adapted for use on
board ship, so that the mariner might be able to ascertain his position
on the vast expanse of trackless ocean. We are all most ready to
admire and extol the men and the ships which made such daring voyages
and discoveries in the past; but I submit that nothing like adequate
recognition has been paid to the essential value of the astrolabe and
cross-staff, or their successor, the modern sextant. Even if in those
days which marked the close of the Middle Ages there had suddenly been
invented and built a whole fleet of turbine steamships with capable
crews, yet still without the instrument of finding latitude they could
have had only vague ideas as to their position and would only have been
able to produce unsatisfactory charts. Indeed, as a modern writer has
remarked, it was this improved sea astrolabe which “removed the last
doubt in Columbus’s mind as to the possibility of carrying out his
plans of discovery.”

