Thus it came about that the man who could work an astrolabe was a
person of some importance. He was held in high honour by the crew,
since he alone was able to state the ship’s position and her course
thence to her nearest port. Naturally, therefore, those Arabian pilots
and Oriental astronomers who had been brought to the Iberian peninsula
would go swaggering along the streets of Lisbon wearing these sea-rings
conspicuously both as their badge of office and as indicative of their
dignity. It was Behaim’s astrolabe which was used by Columbus, by Vasco
da Gama, by Diaz, and others in their stupendous voyages: and still
more valuable was it with the addition of the tables of the sun’s
declination, first reduced by Behaim also. Nevertheless, we must not
omit to bear in mind that as far back as the eighth century Messahala,
a learned Rabbi, had already written a treatise on the astrolabe, and
that even earlier still--in the sixth century B.C.--the astrolabe for
use on shore had been invented by Hipparchus. But had the achievements
of the ancients much influence, do you ask, on the cosmographers and
astronomers of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries? The answer is
most certainly in the affirmative; and the greatest experts of this
period had a very complete knowledge of the work of their predecessors.

But for the same purpose of taking the height of the sun there was
employed an instrument called the cross-staff; of which the Spanish
word (adapted from the Greek) was the “balla stella.” The drawback to
the astrolabe was that it was difficult to use it with accuracy owing
to the rolling and pitching of the ship. Therefore the cross-staff,
being more steadily held in the hand, began to supersede the astrolabe.
Bourne, the famous Elizabethan navigational expert, insisted that
because the sea “causeth the shippe to heave” the best way to take the
sun’s height was with the cross-staff: furthermore, the degrees on
this instrument were marked larger than on the astrolabe. Also in a
larger instrument an error was seen sooner. The method of use in taking
the height of the sun, he explained, was as follows: Note with your
compass the sun when the latter approaches the meridian. When it has
arrived at S. by E. then begin to take the sun’s height thus: Put the
“transitorie” (or cross-piece) on the long staff, set the end of the
long staff close to the eye, “winking with your other eye,” and then
move the transitory forwards or backwards until you see the lower end
of it (“being just with the horizon”) and the upper end of it (“being
just with the middle of the sun”), “both to agree with the sunne and
the horizon at one time.” Observe the same until you see the sun at the
highest and beginning to descend. You have then finished.

