[Illustration: AN OLD NOCTURNAL.

In the S. Kensington Museum.]

The training of a navigator such as went on in Seville was very
thorough, so that it formed an excellent precedent for all who had at
heart the education of the complete navigator. The training in the year
1636 was a three-year course, and the following curriculum is given for
that year by Sir Clements Markham in his “Sea Fathers”:--

First Year: (1) The sphere of Sacrobosco. (2) The four rules of
Arithmetic: Rule of three, extraction of square root, cube root, and
fractions. (3) The theory of Purbach, or planets and eclipses. (4) The
spherical trigonometry of Regiomontanus. (5) The Almagest of Ptolemy.

Second Year: (1) The first six books of Euclid. (2) Arcs and chords,
right sines, tangents and secants. (3) To complete Regiomontanus and
Ptolemy.

Third Year: (1) Cosmography and navigation. (2) Use of astrolabe. (3)
The methods of observing the movements of heavenly bodies. (4) The use
of the globe and of mathematical instruments. (5) The construction of a
watch.

It must not be forgotten that the life on board a Tudor ship was, even
for rough, rude, untutored seamen, full of hardships, even if full
of adventure. Anyone who cares to look through the records of the
voyages can see this for himself. We are accustomed to regard that as
a romantic age; but the romance is only visible through the avenue of
distance which now separates us from those times. The victualling was
disgracefully mismanaged at the beginning of the sixteenth century. The
crews of ships were actually allowed to fight in the English Channel
for their country in a condition that was almost sheer starvation.
Actually the commissariat department was so bad that ships had to
return home from the region of battle to fetch supplies. There was
nothing very romantic, either, in having to serve on ships which exuded
a terrible stench from their holds. A horrible mixture of bilge-water
and decayed food, coupled with the heat of the galley, helped to make
the health of the Tudor sailorman anything but good.

