The tumble-home on these ships was excessive, but since they carried
so many decks it was essential that the topmost should be as light
as possible. But just as on a modern steamship the master can survey
everything forward from the eminence of his bridge, so the Elizabethan
captain, standing on the poop, was able to command the whole ship, to
see ahead and to keep an eye on his men. There was no uniform colour
for painting the Elizabethan hulls, Mr. Oppenheim says. Black and
white, the Tudor colours green and white, red, and timber colour were
all used. Sometimes a dragon or a lion gilded was at the beak-head,
with the royal arms at the stern. On either side of the stern was a
short gallery, on to which the captain could emerge from his cabin
under the poop. The long tiller from the rudder came in under the poop,
and was controlled by a bar or whipstaff attached to this same tiller.
“The roul,” says James Lightbody in his “Mariner’s Jewel,” published
in 1695, “is that through which the whipstaff goeth, which is a piece
of wood the steersman holdeth in his hand to steer withal.” The man
received his orders, as a rule, from the master of the ship, but when
entering port the pilot would instruct him how to steer.

[Illustration: ILLUSTRATION TO SHOW AN ELIZABETHAN HELMSMAN STEERING A
SHIP BY MEANS OF WHIPSTAFF.

(Sketched on board the replica of the _Revenge_ at Earl’s Court.)]

There was not very much room in the fo’k’sle--just enough to sleep a
few of the crew and for stowing coils of rope and the like. The galley
was erected at the bottom of the hold on a brick floor. Below the
upper deck came the main deck. Here were disposed the heavier guns,
and here the crew were berthed. Between this and the hold was a false
orlop, where the bread-room and the cabins of the petty officers were
placed. But what was perhaps especially noticeable about these ships
was the extent to which the poop and the beak projected away from the
hull. Consequently, not only did these craft roll, but they pitched
considerably as well. The interiors of the cabins were painted green,
and there was a certain amount of carving externally both at beak and
stern. So much for the “high-charged” type of ship.

