[Illustration: WAIST, QUARTER-DECK, AND POOP OF THE “REVENGE.”

(Elizabethan period.)]

[Illustration: SIXTEENTH-CENTURY THREE-MASTED SHIP.

By a Contemporary Artist. The date on the stern is 1564. Notice the man
in the maintop dowsing maintopsail.]

He goes into the subject with great thoroughness and points out that
allowance must be made for the wind, and how to secure good aim. The
cannon are to be placed so as to be right in the middle of the ports of
the ship, and care is to be taken that the wheels of the gun-carriage
are not made too high. He advises that when shooting from one ship
at another, if there is any sea on it is essential to have a good
helmsman “that can stirre steadie.” The best time to fire at the other
vessel is when the latter is “alofte on the toppe of the sea,” for then
“you have a bigger marke than when she is in the trough.” If the ship
rolls, “then the best place of the ship for to make a shotte is out of
the head or sterne.” The shorter ordnance is to be placed at the side
of the ship because they are lighter, and if the ship should heave
“wyth the bearyng of a Sayle that you must shutte the portes,” then you
can easily take the guns in.

“In lyke manner,” he proceeds, “the shorter that the peece lyeth oute
of the shyppes syde, the lesse it shall annoy them in the tacklyng of
the Shippes Sayles, for if that the piece doe lye verye farre oute of
the Shyppes syde, then the Sheetes and Tackes, or the Bolynes wyll
alwayes bee foule of the Ordnaunce, whereby it maye muche annoy them in
foule weather.” Therefore the long guns are best placed so that they
are fired from the stern. But a gun so placed must be “verye farre oute
of the porte, or else in the shooting it may blowe up the Counter of
the Shyppes sterne.”

In another equally delightful volume entitled “Inventions or Devises,”
the same author tells his reader how to “arme” (i.e. protect) a “ship
of warre.” You are to keep your men as close as you may, and have
the bonnet off the sail or other canvas stretched along the waist
and decks, as I have shown on an earlier page. The forecastle and
poop, Bourne says, you may “arm” with “manlets or gownes” “to shaddow
your men”; so also the tops, “but now in these daies,” he adds, “the
topfight is unto little effect, since the use of Calivers or Muskets in
Ships,” for the latter could do so much damage. He therefore advises
against having many men in the tops. After alluding to the netting,
which I explained just now, Bourne suggests that the captain must send
the carpenter “into the holde of the Ship” “to stop any leake if any
chance. And also to send downe the Surgion into his Cabin, which ought
and must be in the holde of the ship.”

