The supreme head of the ship was the captain, who was not necessarily
a navigator nor even a seaman; but he was the wielder of authority and
discipline. He it was who had to keep under control a crew that was
prone to swearing, blasphemy, violence, mutiny, and other sins. Sir
William Monson has left behind in his most interesting “Naval Tracts”
many an entertaining detail of sea life during the Elizabethan period,
and tells that a captain might punish a man by putting him in the
“billbows during pleasure,” ducking him at the yard-arm, hauling him
from yard-arm to yard-arm under the ship’s keel (otherwise known as
keel-hauling), fastening him to the capstan and flogging him there,
or else fastening him at the capstan or mainmast with weights hanging
about his neck till his poor heart and back were ready to break.
Another brutal punishment was to “gagg or scrape their tongues for
blasphemy or swearing.”

Elizabethan captains, says Monson, “were gentlemen of worth and
means, maintaining their diet at their own charge.” In a fight the
lieutenant had charge of the forecastle. It was not till the latter
part of Elizabeth’s reign that the rank of lieutenant was created for
the training of young gentlemen destined ultimately for command. He
came aboard quite “green” in order to learn what seamanship he could,
and to assist the captain in the discipline of the ship; but he was
not allowed to interfere with the navigation, which was entirely the
work of the master. Not unnaturally there was a good deal of friction
between the lieutenant and the master. Even the common seaman had an
ineradicable contempt for this landlubber, more especially in the
seventeenth century during the Anglo-Dutch wars.

[Illustration: RIDING BITTS ON THE GUN DECK OF THE “REVENGE.”

(Elizabethan period.)]

In his “Accidence, or The Path-way to Experience necessary for all
Young Seamen,” written by Captain John Smith, the first Governor of
Virginia, we have a great deal of information which tells us just what
we should wish to know. Of the captain and master we have already
spoken. The latter and his mates are to “commaund all the Saylors,
for steering, trimming, and sayling the Ship.” The pilot takes the
ship into harbour, the Cape-merchant and purser have charge of the
cargo, the master-gunner was responsible for all the munitions,
while the carpenter and his mate looked after the nails, pintles,
saws, and any caulking of seams as well as the splicing of masts and
yards. The boatswain had charge of the cordage, marlinespikes, and
sails, etc., while his mate had command of the longboat for laying
out kedge anchors and warping or mooring. The surgeon had to have a
certificate from the “Barber-surgeons Hall” “of his sufficiency,” and
his medicine-chest must be properly filled. The marshal was to punish
offenders, and the corporal was to see to the setting and relieving
of the watch. Every Monday the boatswain was to hear the boys box the
compass, after which they were to have a quarter can of beer and a
basket of bread.

