The men messed in fours, fives, or sixes, and the steward’s duty was
“to deliuer out the victuall.” The quartermasters had charge of the
stowage, while a cooper was carried to look after the casks for wine
and beer, etc. The large ships had three boats, viz. (1) the boat, (2)
the cock, and (3) the skiff. These were respectively put in charge of
(1) the boatswain, (2) the cockswain, and (3) the skiffswain. Hence
the origin of these designations. A cook was carried, and he had his
store of “quarter cans, small cannes, platters, spoones, lanthornes,”
etc. The swabbers’ duties were to wash and keep clean the ship. But the
first man that was found telling a lie every Monday was indicted of
the offence at the mainmast and placed under the swabber to keep the
beak-head and chains clean. The sailors were the experienced mariners
who hoisted the sails, got the tacks aboard, hauled the bowlines,
and steered the ship; while the younkers were the young men called
“foremast men,” whose duty it was to take in topsails, furl and sling
the mainsail, and take their trick at the helm.

[Illustration: LONGITUDINAL PLAN OF AN EARLY SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY SHIP.

This contemporary design conveys an excellent idea of the interior
of an ocean-going vessel. Notice the pilot’s place at the stern; the
tiller and whip-staff; the capstan; the lower deck; the holds, etc.]

In those days the custom of dividing a ship’s company into watches was
already in vogue. “When you set sayle and put to sea, the Captaine is
to call up the company; and the one halfe is to goe to the Starreboord,
the other to the Larboord, as they are chosen: the Maister chusing
first one, then his Mate another, and so forward till they bee diuided
in two parts.” In those days the reckoning by tonnage was far from
reliable as indicating the true size of a ship. Columbus, after his
second voyage across the Atlantic, writes to Captain Antonio de Torres
of the ship _Marigalante_, and refers to the freighting of ships by the
ton “as the Flemish merchants do,” and this, he suggests, would be a
better and less expensive method than any other mode. But when after
the capture of a prize the division of shares was made, it was to the
advantage of the crew to make the tonnage as big as possible. The
custom was to allot the share in proportions. The ship took a third,
the victualler took another third, and the remaining third was divided
up among the crew. Of this latter third the captain received nine
shares, the master seven, and so on down to the boys who had one share,
and there was a reward given to the man who first descried the sails of
the ship ultimately captured. A reward was also paid to the first man
who rushed on board the enemy.

