“To the boat or skiffe belongs oares, a mast, a saile, a stay,
a halyard, sheats, a boat-hook, thoughts (= thwarts), thoules
(thole-pins), rudder, irons, bailes, a trar-pawling or yawning,
carlings, carling-knees, for the David (davit), the boates-wayles, a
dridge. To row a spell, hold-water, trim the boate, _vea, vea, vea,
vea, vea_, who saies Amen, one and all, for a dram of the bottle?”

Impressionist-writing you describe all this? Yes, certainly. But it
has the effect, has it not, of conveying just what we are attempting,
a general idea of the life of Elizabethan sailors at sea? “Many
supposeth,” writes this same author, “any thing is good enough to serve
men at sea, and yet nothing sufficient for them a shore, either for
their healthes, for their ease, or estates, or state.” ... “Some it may
bee will say I would have men rather to feast than fight. But I say the
want of those necessaries occasions the losse of more men than in any
English fleet hath bin slaine in any fight since (15)88: for when a man
is ill sicke, or at the poynt of death, I would know whether a dish
of buttered Rice, with a little Cinamon and Sugar, a little minced
meate, or roast beefe, a few stewed Prunes, a race of greene-ginger, a
flap Jacke, a can of fresh water brued with a little Cinamon, Ginger
and Sugar, be not better than a little poore John, or salt fish, with
oyle and mustard, or bisket, butter, cheese or oatemeale pottage on
fish dayes, salt beefe, porke and pease. This is your ordinary ship’s
allowance, and good for them are well, if well-conditioned, which is
not alwayes, as seamen can too well witnesse: and after a storme, when
poore men are all wet, and some not so much a cloth to shift him,
shaking with cold, few of those but will tell you a little Sacke or
Aquvitæ is much better to keepe them in health, then a little small
beere or cold water, although it be sweete.”

The sea literature of the Elizabethan period is rich in illustrations
of the ways employed. Shakespeare, whom some critics verily believe
to have been a sailor--so unfailingly accurate are his numerous sea
terms--here and there, and especially in “The Tempest,” reflects a good
deal of the life on board ship. In such logs as the voyages of the
great Arctic explorer John Davis, there is many a nautical expression
that cannot fail to arrest our attention. And in order to complete the
impressionistic sketch of Captain John Smith, permit me here to bring
to the reader’s notice some of the phrases which I have collected from
other sources of this period.

