There were various expressions used to mean heaving-to: thus “strake
suddenly ahull” to signify “suddenly hove-to.” So also “tried under our
maine course, sometimes with a haddock of our sail,” as Davis has it,
or “a hullocke of a sayle,” as Smith expresses it. Perhaps it was thus
that the synonym “try-sail” originated, signifying a small handkerchief
of canvas with which to lie comfortably hove-to. “The third day being
calme, at noone we strooke saile, and let fall a cadge anker.” “Cadge”
is spelt “kedge” nowadays. They used to “let slippe” their cables--made
of hemp--from the “halse” or hawse-pipe. But sometimes “the cable of
our shut (= sheet) anker brake.” “For the straines (= strands) of one
of our cables were broken, we only road by an olde junke!” (Junk is
still sailor’s slang for worn-out rope.) In those days when there was
no such thing as telegraph or post, when ships traversing the ocean
were so few as unlikely to meet except rarely, months and years went by
without news of mariners. But sometimes when an outward-bound English
ship met a fellow-countryman homeward-bound, an effort was made to send
letters back. There was an instance of this during Davis’s third voyage
when two days out from Dartmouth. They met the _Red Lion_ of London
sailing home from Spain. So they hailed the latter and asked her master
to carry letters back to London. “And after we had heaved them a lead
and a line, whereunto wee had made fast our letters, before they could
get them into the ship, they fell into the sea, and so all our labour
and theirs was also lost.”

Happily there still exists the “Traverse-Booke,” which Davis made
during his third voyage, when he set out to discover that north-west
passage which was only found in the present decade by Captain Roald
Amundsen, who also was the first to reach the South Pole. And I
cannot believe that even a brief extract of Davis’s sailing will fail
to be of the greatest interest to modern seamen, whether amateur or
professional. I have therefore thought fit to append the following,
which covers the first nine days beginning from the time when his
little fleet of three, consisting of the “barke” _Elizabeth_, the
“barke” _Sunneshine_, and the “Clincher” _Helene_, weighed their
anchors and set sail from Dartmouth.

