And the same authority has something very interesting to tell us
concerning the ceremonial wearing of the flag on board ship. I have
no intention of confusing our chronological sequence, but I must ask
the reader for a moment to recall that incident which was one of the
indirect if not the real causes of the first Anglo-Dutch wars. It will
be remembered--which English schoolboy does not remember it well?--that
when Captain Young, one May Day in 1652, was bound down Channel
and met a convoy of Dutchmen coming up, he was angered to find the
foreigner declined to salute, and an engagement immediately followed.
Now, writing long before that incident had ever occurred, Monson
definitely states that if a foreign fleet should pass on our seas
and meet our admiral’s ship, the former were expected to acknowledge
our sovereignty by coming under the lee of the admiral, by striking
their topsails and taking in their flag. “And this hath never been
questioned,” he adds, except out of ignorance, as in the case of Philip
II, when he met the Lord Admiral of England when the former was sailing
to England in order to marry Queen Mary. The custom was that if any
foreign ship were to arrive in one of our ports or to pass a fort or
castle, she must, as she entered, and before coming to anchor, take in
her flag three times “and advance it again.” But should the English
admiral be in the harbour, the foreigner was not to display his flag at
all.

Prior to the reign of James I, all admirals wore the St. George’s flag
at the topmast head. But when the Union of Scotland had been effected
there was added the cross of St. Andrew. An admiral at anchor took in
his flag in the evening and fired a gun and set the watch. “The flag
carried under the poop of a ship,” he remarks, “shews a disgrace,” and
is never used except when it is won or taken from an enemy.

Jealousy of Spain and greed of gold had as much to do with the impetus
given to English seamanship and navigation during Elizabethan times as
any inherent love of the sea. To meet this new zeal various writers,
some of whom we have already mentioned, set to work to write treatises
that would turn raw agricultural labourers and tavern-haunters into
fighting sailors and navigators. William Bourne, from whom we have
already quoted, in his “Regiment for the Sea” was the first to give
a book on navigation written by an Englishman. This was in the year
1573, and a rare example of this little work is still preserved in
the British Museum. In it he pointed out the various ways for finding
the variation of the compass, exposed the errors of the plane charts,
and advised mariners in sailing towards high latitudes to keep their
reckoning by the globe, as in those regions the plane chart was most
likely to land them into trouble.

