In 1594 John Davis, the Arctic explorer, published his “The Seaman’s
Secrets.” This book became very popular, and took the place of the
Spanish Martin Cortes’ handbook, which had been used in the English
translation. There is a vast amount of matter in Davis’ “Secrets” which
is worth perusing even by the modern navigator. He speaks of “great
Circle navigation,” and gives a whole host of valuable practical hints.
“The Instruments necessarie for a skilfull seaman,” he explains, “are
a Sea Compasse, a Cross staffe, a Quadrant, an Astrolabe, a Chart, an
instrument magneticall[49] for the finding of the variation of the
Compasse, an Horizontall plaine Sphere, a Globe, and a paradoxall
Compasse”[50] ... “but the Sea Compasse, Chart and Crosse staffe
are instruments sufficient for the seaman’s use, the astrolabie and
quadrant being ... very uncertaine.” In this book he gives instruction
as to tides, stars, and how to use the astrolabe. And it is worth
noting that he speaks of the English Channel after the fashion of our
Gallic neighbours, who still refer to “La manche.” “Our Channell,” he
explains, “commonly called the Sleue” (sleeve).

[Illustration: CHART OF A.D. 1589.

Showing the dividing line between the Old World and the New.

It will be recollected that the Pope had drawn an imaginary line North
and South, a hundred leagues west of the Azores, leaving all that lay
east thereof to the Portuguese, and all that lay west to the Spanish.]

Everyone knows that longitude is the distance east or west of a given
meridian. In those days Greenwich did not enter into the matter: the
observatory there had still to be founded. When Davis wrote in the year
1594 there was no variation at St. Michael’s in the Azores, and so the
longitude was reckoned from there. “Longitude,” he defines, “is that
portion of the Equator contained betweene the Meridian of S. Michel’s,
one of the Assores, and the Meridian of the place whose longitude is
desired: the reason why the accompt of longitude doth begin at this Ile
is, because that there the compasse hath no variety.”

