The compass was variously known in the Elizabethan age as the
“sea-directorie,” the “nauticall box,” and the “sea-compasse.”
Lightbody describes the bittacles as “little wooden pins for nailing
the compass-box withal.” The first atlas was published in Dutch at
Leyden in 1585 by Wagenaer. In this are to be found excellent coloured
charts of the Narrow Seas. It is evident from these that there was
a system of buoyage even in those days. There are barrel buoys, for
instance, and basket beacons such as you can still find in use to-day
in different parts of Holland. The sands on the port hand of the Swin
Middle at the entrance to the Thames Estuary are shown marked by
staff-and-triangle marks. This excellent atlas was soon translated into
English, so that the elaborate sailing directions and the admirable
little contours of the coast--crude but useful--could be placed at
the service of English mariners. This English version was known
as Wagenaer’s “Mariner’s Mirrour,” and there was also “The Sea
Mirrour,” translated from the Dutch of William Johnson Blaeu by Richard
Hynmers in 1625, which was another of the numerous nautical books of
this time, containing instruction in practical navigation, sailing
directions, charts, and contours.

[Illustration: A CHART OF THE THAMES ESTUARY.

(Dover to Orfordness.) This is taken from the first Atlas ever
published, viz., in 1585.]

[Illustration: “HOW YOU MAY AT ONE STATION MEASURE UPPON AN HEIGTH WITH
A GEOMETRICALL SQUARE A LONGITUDE UPPON PLAINE.”

This is from Lucar’s sixteenth-century treatise on gunnery, and
illustrates the use of the “geometricall square” for finding the
distance between the galley and the ship, viz. 300 yards. This
instrument was made of metal or cypress, the quadrant being divided
into 90 degrees. It was used for measuring “altitudes, latitudes
and profundities,” and so very valuable for all gunnery work.
]

The hourly or half-hourly glasses used on board were turned by the
sentry, who struck the ship’s bell at every half-hour just as on
shipboard to-day. The only means of keeping correct time in those days
was by observing the heavenly bodies, and this gave time at ship. But
frequently the navigators were many miles out in their longitude, since
the latter is found by comparing the exact time at ship with the time
by a chronometer showing the time at the prime meridian.

