Nicholas Tartaglia, in his “Three Bookes of Colloquies concerning
the Arte of Shooting,” published in the year of the Armada, gives
an interesting illustration to indicate how one could know by the
help of a gunner’s circle the number of miles or feet any ship lying
in the roadstead was distant; and also how to measure height with
a geometrical square. And Bourne, in his “Treasure for Traueilers”
(1578), had a method for ascertaining the “waight of any shyp swimmyng
on the water.” The reader will remember that when we were discussing
Columbus we pointed out the lack of that useful instrument, the log and
line, for indicating the distance which a vessel sailed. It was William
Bourne who first published an idea for overcoming this difficulty in
a somewhat ingenious manner. In his “Inventions and Devices” (1578),
he gives a method whereby “to know the way or going of a ship, for
to knowe how fast or softly that any ship goeth.” The idea is too
complicated to be given here in detail, but practically it amounted to
towing astern a tiny boat containing a paddle-wheel which revolved,
and so by a species of clockwork registered the speed. Excepting that
the patent log of to-day is helicular, there is much resemblance
between the old and the new in at least the bare idea. But a little
later--in the year 1637--Richard Norwood published, in his “Seaman’s
Practice,” a whole chapter on the subject “Of dividing the Log-line and
reckoning the Ship’s way.” The log-line was to be used in conjunction
with the glass, and this method was little altered until the
nineteenth-century invention of the patent log had to be brought about
owing to the great speed of steamships.

[Illustration: SIXTEENTH-CENTURY SHIP BEFORE THE WIND.

By a Contemporary Artist. Notice the square lids over the portholes.]

Before we conclude this chapter we must not omit to say something of
the improvement in naval strategy, tactics, and discipline during
the Elizabethan period. You will remember that important campaign of
1587, when Drake took an expedition out to Cadiz, sunk and burnt an
enormous quantity of the enemy’s tonnage, repulsed the attacks of the
Mediterranean galleys--completely beating this type of craft at her
own special game and in her own waters--captured large quantities of
supplies intended for the Armada, and demonstrated himself to be no man
of medieval conceptions, but a modern strategist by waiting at Cape St.
Vincent, where he held the real key to the situation--able to prevent
the fleets from Cartagena and Cadiz from reaching Lisbon. You will
remember, too, that after terrorising the Spaniards and their galleys
he set a course for the Azores, captured the mammoth _San Felipe_,
homeward bound from the East Indies with a cargo that, reckoned in the
money value of to-day, was worth over £1,000,000; and what was more,
discovered from the ship’s papers the long-kept secrets of the East
Indian trade. Finally, during that same historic voyage, when friction
broke out between the modern strategist Drake and his medieval-minded
vice-admiral William Borough, the latter was promptly court-martialled,
tried on board the flagship by Drake, Fenner, and the other captains,
and deposed from his command.

