[Illustration: AN EARLY SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY FORTIFIED HARBOUR.

By a Contemporary Artist. Showing the galleys moored on one side, and
the ships on the other.]

Afterwards there still remained some few pirates, so that it was
“incredible how many great and rich prizes the little barques of the
West Country daily brought home.” But now, after peace had come and
the men who had fought the Spaniards were not needed, they betook
themselves to help the Moorish pirates of Tunis, Algiers, and the
north coast of Africa, and many became their captains. There they were
joined also by the scum of France and Holland, but very few Spaniards
or Italians came with them. Some were captured off the Irish coast and
hanged at Wapping: others were pardoned by James I. They wandered in
their craft north and east; to the English Channel, Irish Sea, and the
Mediterranean, causing panic everywhere; and this notwithstanding that
they had against them warships sent out by the Pope, the Florentines,
Genoese, Maltese, Dutch, and English. There were seldom more than
half a dozen of these piratical craft together, and yet they would
invade a seaside town, carry off property and persons, attack ships
and confiscate their freights with the greatest impudence. But after
a while factions grew, and “so riotous, quarrellous, treacherous,
blasphemous, and villainous” a community became “so disjoynted,
disordered, debawched, and miserable, that the Turks and Moores
beganne to command them as slaves, and force them to instruct them in
their best skill.” It was after these pirates had committed frightful
atrocities as far north as Baltimore, carried away men, women, and
children into slavery and been a terrible menace to shipping, that
James I’s navy performed the only active service of his reign when it
was sent in 1620 to the Mediterranean. However, though it contained
six royal ships and a dozen merchantmen and was away from October to
the following June, yet it did little good as a punitive expedition.
It was not until 1655 that Blake settled the Tunisian pirates, set
fire to all the nine ships of the enemy, and came out of the harbour
again with but small loss. And though even in this twentieth century
the north coast of Africa still possesses a few pirate ships which have
been known to attack a sailing yacht when becalmed, yet ever since
Admiral Lord Exmouth, in August, 1816, with a small fleet of British
and Dutch warships, exterminated the pirates at Algiers, silenced their
five hundred guns, captured the Dey of Algiers, and released twelve
hundred Christians, this relic of medieval piracy has been practically
non-existent in European waters.

