The system of signalling in vogue during the first half of the
seventeenth century was of three kinds. By day topsails were lowered
and raised. By night lights were shown: while the shooting of ordnance
was used both by night and day. At night, too, an admiral showed two
lights on his poop, the vice-admiral and rear-admiral being some
distance astern, and each with one light on the poop. Every morning
and evening the vice- and rear-admirals manœuvred their ships so as to
speak with the admiral and take their instructions, weather permitting,
and then fell back into line again. If an admiral went about on the
other tack at night, he fired a cannon and showed two lights, one above
the other, and the rest of the fleet were to make answer. If he was
forced to bear round, the admiral showed three lights on his poop, and
the other ships replied with the same. If he shortened sail in the
night for foul weather, he showed three lights on the poop one above
the other. If in foul weather the ships of the fleet lost company and
afterwards came in sight of each other, then “if in topsail gale, you
shall strike your foretopsail twice; but if it be not topsail gale,
you shall brail up your foresail and let it fall twice.” There were no
fog-horns in use at this time on ships, but in thick weather they made
a noise with a drum, trumpet, or would ring a bell and sometimes shoot
off a musket. One man was kept continually on watch at the topmast head.

A gunner had to provide himself at sea with powder, shot, fire-pikes,
cartridges, case-shot, crossbar-shot, etc., and a horn for powder,
priming iron, linstocks, gunner’s quadrant, and a dark lantern. The
types of guns now in use consisted--reckoning from the largest to the
smallest--of the cannon royal, cannon, cannon serpentine, bastard
cannon, demi-cannon, cannon petro, culverin, basilisk, demi-culverin,
bastard culverin, saker, minion, falcon, falconet, serpentine, and
rabanet. The cannon royal had a bore of 8½ inches, shot a 66-lb. shot
a distance of 800 paces; whilst the rabanet had a 1-inch bore, shot a
1-lb. shot 120 paces.

