A capital ship of the time of James I carried two guns in the gun-room
astern and two in the upper gun-room, which was “commonly used for a
store-room, lodgings, and other employments for a general or captain’s
use, and his followers.” Above these two gun-rooms was the captain’s
cabin, with the open galleries astern and on the sides. Fowlers and the
smaller guns were thrust out from here.

The author of “The Light of Navigation,” published in 1612, remarks
that among other things the “seafaring man or pilot” ought to know how
to reckon tides, “that he may knowe everie where what Moone maketh an
high water in that place, that when he would enter into any Haven or
place, where he can not get in at lowe water, then he may stay till it
be half flood.” He ought to know also the direction of the tide, and
complains that some “upon pride and unwillingnes, because they would
keepe the art and knowledge to themselves,” “will not suffer the common
saylers to see their work.”

[Illustration: “THE PERSPECTIVE APPEARANCE OF A SHIP’S BODY, IN THE
MIDSHIPS DISSECTED.”

This ingenious drawing, which gives the reader a good idea of the
interior of a seventeenth-century ship, is among the Pepysian MSS.
in Magdalene College, Cambridge, and entitled “Mr. Dummer’s Draughts
of the Body of an English Man of War.” Edward Dummer was assistant
shipwright at Chatham. Pepys described him in 1686 as an “ingenious
young man.”]

In the seventeenth century the lieutenant was still not necessarily
a seaman. He was a well-bred gentleman, knowing how to entertain
ambassadors, gentlemen, and distinguished visitors received on board.
He was capable of being sent as a responsible messenger to important
personages, and was, in short, of far more use as a social instrument
than as a naval officer. During the Commonwealth soldiers again
became sea-commanders, and the names of Blake, Monck, and Popham will
instantly leap to the mind. Up till the time of Charles II the sea
service had not always enjoyed the dignity of being deemed a profession
worthy of gentlemen. There were, of course, exceptions; but as a
general rule this was the case. But, thanks to the example of the Duke
of York, afterwards James II, the Navy during the time of his brother
Charles II became fashionable--too fashionable, in fact; for numbers of
gentlemen got themselves promoted to the rank of ship’s captain while
knowing very little indeed about ships and their ways. One has only to
read through some of Mr. Pepys’ remarks to appreciate this unfortunate
condition of affairs.

