The reign of James II gave a still greater impetus to the English naval
service. There was an improvement in administration and organisation
generally, thanks partly to the personal inclination of James towards
maritime matters, and partly to the lessons which he and others had
learned during the Anglo-Dutch sea fights. But as to placing naval
education on a sound basis, there was no such thing in England till
the end of the Stuart period, although across the Channel the French
were seeing to it that their sailors obtained not only a thoroughly
practical, but also an adequate theoretical training. The English
midshipman came aboard for his first cruise a complete landsman with
no training. He managed to learn the rudiments of seamanship from the
boatswain, and to get a smattering of elementary navigation; yet it was
anything but a satisfactory training. There was little enough science
in the sailor’s work, and hundreds of ships were wrecked through
lack of proper instruments, until, in the year 1676, the founding of
Greenwich Observatory enabled nautical astronomy to be developed to
the great advantage of ships and men. Thanks to the English overseas
colonies and the Newcastle colliers, to which Boteler refers in
his famous “Dialogues,” published in 1685; to the numbers of other
coasters; and last, but most important of all, to the long protracted
Dutch wars which had taught many a greenhorn how to use the sea, there
was a large and growing body of seamen, many of whose descendants were
to fight under Rodney, Hawke, Jervis, Nelson, and other famous admirals
at a later date.

[Illustration: THE “ORTHOGRAPHICK SIMMETRYE” OF A SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY
SHIP.

Being another of “Mr. Dummer’s Draughts.”]

At the end of the seventeenth century, captains in the Navy were being
paid £1 10s. a month during the time of peace, but during war this was
raised to £3. The idea of a naval uniform originated in France in the
year 1669, but the practice of all grades of naval officers wearing
uniform did not become general until the time of the first Empire.
During the reign of our Charles II, ships of the English Navy carried
as officers, captains, lieutenants, masters, pursers, surgeons, and
chaplains. The seventeenth-century French Navy owed a very considerable
debt to the far-sighted enterprise of Colbert, but _directly_ it owed
a very great deal to the labours of its chaplains, who instructed
the pilots in their work and taught naval aspirants the mysteries of
astronomy and navigation. During the first part of the seventeenth
century the finest shipbuilders had been the Dutch, for, thanks to
their East Indian and other colonies, Holland had every reason for
building big ocean-going ships. No one in Spain, England, or France
could for a time build ships like theirs. And so it was but natural
that the zealous French went to Holland, lived there for some time in
order to learn shipbuilding, translated the best Dutch authorities
on this subject into French, and returned home to build on even more
scientific lines. Therefore in the eighteenth century the French could
build vessels as no one else in the world. It was from the latter, in
turn, that the English at last acquired so much skill that the old
rule-of-thumb methods of ship construction were for ever banished and
the era of scientific shipbuilding entered upon. In such scientific
matters as the improvement of gunnery, the log, the stability and
better under-water design of ships, France led the way for those vast
reforms which were subsequently to follow.

