It is undeniable that the Stuart seamanship was inferior to that of the
Elizabethans. They could not handle their vessels with such dexterity
as the contemporaries of Drake. The sailors who had not become pirates
were not the equals of those who had fought against the Spaniards;
and this for two reasons: firstly, the fisheries had become so bad as
to discourage putting to sea; and, secondly, the voyages of discovery
were now far fewer. As already stated, one of the happy results of the
Anglo-Dutch wars was that they gave experience to inexperienced men.
Often enough, too, as in the fleet that was sent in 1625 to Cadiz,
the ships were leaky, cranky, and fitted with defective gear and the
scantiest supply of victuals. Add to these drawbacks the incapacity of
the officers and the diseases of the men, and you may rightly pity the
lot of the sailor in those times. They were even put ashore at Cadiz
fasting, so that they promptly filled their poor bellies with the wine
of the country and became drunk.

Can you wonder, therefore, that during the Civil War, after there had
been a series of mutinies during the reign of Charles I, the whole of
the Navy, with the exception of one ship, deserted the royal cause as
a protest against the bad food, the irregular pay, and the incapable
officers? After that the victuals were improved, their wages were
paid at a fair scale and with punctuality, and their affairs better
regulated. But not even then were matters entirely satisfactory. As
one reads through the correspondence of this period one can see that
discipline was woefully lacking. Even Blake, keen disciplinarian that
he was, found it necessary to write on the 1st of December, 1652,
to the Admiralty Commissioners to the following effect soon after
the encounter with the Dutch fleet off Dungeness: “I am bound to let
your Honours know in general that there was much baseness of spirit,
not among the merchantmen only, but many of the State’s ships, and
therefore I make it my humble request that your Honours would be
pleased to send down some gentlemen to take an impartial and strict
examination of the deportment of several commanders, that you may know
who are to be confined and who are not.” Captain Thomas Thorowgood--is
not the surname suggestive of the Puritan period?--also wrote to
complain that his crew had actually refused to accept their six months’
pay as being inadequate. “On Saturday night they were singing and
roaring, and I sent my servant to bid the boatswain to be quiet and go
to their cabins; but they told me they would not be under my command,
so I struck one of them, and the rest put out the candle and took
hold of me as though they would have torn me to pieces, so that I am
almost beside myself, not knowing what to do.”

