We spoke just now of the absence of good charts. It was Charles II
who, being himself greatly interested in navigation and finding that
there were no sea charts of the British Isles except such as were
Dutch or copies of the Dutch--and very erroneous at that--gave a man
named Greenville Collins command of a yacht for the purpose of making
a sea survey, “in which service,” says Collins, “I spent seven years’
time.” James II, himself a great admiral, encouraged this work till
its completion, and so good and accurate were the charts that they
were in active use at any rate till the end of the eighteenth century.
As to the lighting of the coast, this was still in a very primitive
condition. The first navigation light in this country was that of the
Roman Pharos at Dover, a day-mark which mariners still see to-day as
they come bound up Channel. In monastic times probably St. Aldhelm’s
(better known as St. Albans) Head showed a light to warn ships from the
land, and it is also thought that there was a light at Flamborough[51]
and in Flintshire. In 1685, Lowestoft, Dungeness, the North and South
Forelands, Orfordness, Flamborough, Portland, Harwich, and the Isle
of Man were all lighted by beacon fires of wood and coal. These coal
fires continued in some of the lighthouses round our coast even till
well into the reign of William IV. But the Argand lamp, which was
invented during the reign of James II, gradually and surely took the
place of the older-fashioned beacon. And if we may, whilst we are
on the subject, anticipate a few years, we may add that though in
William IV’s time lights were more numerous and the system of buoys was
well established, yet lightships were practically non-existent. The
first lightship dates from 1732, when Robert Hamblyn and David Avery
established such a ship at the Nore.

We may pass now to consider the conditions which regulated the work
of Stuart seamen on board one of the ships such as fought against the
Dutch. We have to think of a type of warship that was nothing else than
a slightly developed specimen of the Elizabethan period. The difference
between the Tudor and Stuart ships at their fullest development is
merely that the latter had become much bigger and carried additional
sails and guns and crew. As a broad statement, this sums the matter up
in the fewest words. Had you passed one of the biggest of the Stuart
ships at sea you would have seen a three- and sometimes a four-masted
craft with topsails and t’gallants above her courses. On such a ship
as the _Sovereign of the Seas_, if we are to judge by a perfectly
authentic engraving, royals were also set sometimes. On the mizzen you
would have observed the lateen sail still in existence. What especially
would have struck you would have been not merely the elongated beak,
but the very long bowsprit. The sailors had to creep out along this
spar, keeping themselves, by hanging on to a stay or spreader, from
slipping into the ocean every time the vessel rose or fell to the
motion of the waves. It was a pretty wet job to lay out along there in
a breeze of wind when the beak-head was dipping well down into the sea
every time she pitched and hurling a veritable cascade over them. There
was one squaresail bent to a yard underneath the bowsprit, and this
water-sail had a couple of round holes--one at either side low down
near the foot--the object being to permit the water, which this low
sail scooped up, to escape. The sheets of this sail led aft and came on
board abaft the fore shrouds. In fine weather a bonnet was sometimes
laced to this spritsail. But in these Stuart ships there was also a
square spritsail hoisted on a sprit-topmast. To hoist this sail the
men had, of course, to go right out to the extreme forward end of the
bowsprit. Above this topmast flew the Union Jack.

