[Illustration: A SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY FIRST-RATE SHIP.

Embarkation was made by means of the “Entring Port,” which is clearly
shown amidships.]

Had you gone aboard such a vessel you would have found she had three
decks and a forecastle, a quarter-deck, and a “round-house.” The
lowest tier had thirty square-ports for demi-cannon and cannon. There
were thirty ports also on the middle tier for demi-culverin and
culverin. But her upper tier had twenty-six ports for lighter ordnance.
Her forecastle and her half-deck had twelve and fourteen ports
respectively, and there were thirteen or fourteen more ports “within
board for murdering pieces,” as well as a good many holes for firing
muskets out of the cabins. Right forward and right aft respectively she
carried ten pieces of chase-ordnance.

As you paced her spacious decks you would have realised that you were
on board some better finished article than belonged to Elizabethan
days. The workmanship and decoration would have struck you as of a
higher class. From her great ensign flying over the poop to the smaller
Union Jack on the sprit-topmast; from her royal standard, flying at
the main, to her keel, she would have appeared a massive, substantial
creature of wood and able to withstand a good deal of battering even
from the Dutch ordnance. You would have noted, too, the many carved
emblems pertaining to land and sea which decorated her--the angelic
figures holding up devices, the cupids, and “symbols of navigation,”
all done in gold and black. You would have wondered at the elaborate
figurehead representing a royal personage on horseback prancing over
the waves. And finally, when you came round to the stern, you would
have remarked the elaborate allegorical picture of Victory, or some
other suitable subject, and the five great poop-lanterns--one of them
so big that “ten people could stand upright in it”--crowning the whole
thing. Seventy-five feet, you would have been told, as you looked over
the side, she measured from the keel to her lanterns.

