The poop-deck ended some distance abaft the mizzen-mast: the
quarter-deck came just as far forward as the mainmast. Below the
quarter-deck was the upper deck, which ran the whole length of the
ship. Next below came the main deck, where the heaviest guns were
kept. The forecastle was really a substantial fortress which rose
from the upper deck, and, by the aid of its guns already mentioned,
could look after itself even when the enemy had boarded the ship
and obtained possession of the rest of the decks. Sometimes a light
topgallant forecastle was erected above the forecastle. Additional to
the guns already mentioned, swivels were also mounted on quarter-deck
and poop, and would be very useful in case one of the enemy’s ships
came alongside for boarding. The cable of such a ship would be about a
hundred fathoms long of 21-inch hemp, her anchors being respectively of
430 lbs., 150 lbs., and 74 lbs. weight. Davis’ quadrant or backstaff
was still used, and the log-line was an appreciable assistance.

[Illustration: SECTION OF A THREE-DECKER.

Showing construction and gun tiers.]

[Illustration: NOCTURNAL.

Employed at sea for finding the hour of the night by the North Star.]

Below you might have found the dull red everywhere a monotonous colour.
But there was a reason: it prevented the human blood spilt in an
engagement from being too conspicuous. So also the gun-carriage was
painted the same hue. All the ports were square except on the upper
and quarter-decks, where the ports were circular, and surrounded with
gilt wreaths. Externally the upper works of the hull above the line of
the upper decks were painted dark blue with gilt decorations. Below
this the ship was painted yellow down to the lower deck ports, with
a broad band of black along the water-line. Her bottom was painted
white, with the anti-fouling composition. Various experiments were
tried for sheathing the ships with lead, but eventually a fixed method
was adopted for about a century, which consisted of hammering numerous
broad-headed nails close together along the ship’s bottom, and then
paying thereon a composition of tallow and resin.

