But there were some very fine fellows in two branches of the merchant
service. Hutchinson calls attention to these: “Those seamen in the
coal and coasting trade to the city of London, are the most perfect in
working and managing their ships in narrow, intricate, and difficult
channels, and in tide ways; and the seamen in the East India trade are
so in the open seas.” “The best lessons for tacking and working to
windward in little room,” he remarks elsewhere, “are in the colliers
bound to London, where many great ships are constantly employed,
and where wages are paid by the voyage, so that interest makes them
dexterous.” The mainmast of such craft stood further aft than was
customary. Therefore they had a strong tendency to gripe, and so they
often used their spritsail and all head sail for going to windward and
making them manageable. In narrow channels, when the wind was blowing
so strongly that all hands could not haul aft the fore sheet, this had
to be done by the capstan. These little brigs had no lifts to the lower
yards, no foretop bowlines, but short main bowlines, and snatch-blocks
for the main and fore sheets. The main braces led forward so that the
main and maintop bowlines were hauled and belayed to the same pin. “We
have ships,” he says, “that will sail from six to nine miles an hour,
upon a wind, when it blows fresh and the water is smooth, and will make
their way good within six points of the wind, in still water, a third
of what they run by the logg.”

The accompanying illustration shows the well-known manœuvre of
boxhauling, which Hutchinson was most anxious to teach his brother
seamen. For the benefit of the non-nautical reader, I may explain
that this is a method of veering a ship when the sea is so bad that
she cannot tack, and is dangerously near the lee shore. Boxhauling,
insisted Hutchinson, is the surest and best method of getting a ship
under command of helm and sails in a limited space. “There is a saying
amongst seamen,” he adds, “if a ship will not stay you must ware her;
and if she will not ware, you must box-haul her; and if you cannot
box-haul her, you must club-haul her--that is, let go the anchor to
get her about on the other tacks.” Every maritime officer to-day has
written across his mind in imperishable letters the five L’s--“log,
lead, look-out, latitude, and longitude.” In Hutchinson’s day the
sailor had only three of these, and he quotes the great Halley
as emphasising the importance of the three L’s--lead, latitude, and
look-out. For the difficulty of the longitude was still unsolved.

