And then, in 1765, the English prize was at last won by John and
William Harrison, who were able to make instruments most suitable
for this purpose, and received the £20,000. This was that invaluable
little article the chronometer, which means so much to the modern
mammoth steamships. Dr. Maskelyne, the Astronomer Royal, had, in 1754,
discovered the method of finding longitude by lunar observations on
shore. After navigators at last began to employ chronometers the
dawn of modern methods had already occurred. In 1767 came the first
publication of the “Nautical Almanac,” Hadley’s quadrant was made known
in 1731, and the sextant in 1761. Perhaps, as the sailing masters in
the Navy had to provide their own nautical instruments, there was
not such an incentive to accustom themselves to new methods as might
otherwise have been the case.

[Illustration: INTERIOR OF AN EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY THREE-DECKER.]

[Illustration: INTERIOR OF AN EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY MAN-OF-WAR.

Showing decks, cabins, holds, etc.]

Till the time when Hadley’s quadrant was adopted, masters had always
stuck to Davis’. The ship’s time was still kept by half-hour glass. The
quartermaster, when the sand had run down, capsized the glass again and
struck the ship’s bell--on eight occasions during the watch. All
the different courses sailed during a watch of four hours were marked
by the quartermaster on a circular disc of hard wood. This was called
a traverse board, and thereon were marked the different points of the
compass. On the line of each point radiating from the centre were eight
little holes, just as one sees in a cribbage-board. One at a time, pegs
were placed into these holes to register the various courses sailed in
every watch. And then, later on, the courses were entered on a log-book
or slate, and the course and distance made good reckoned out.

[Illustration: QUARTER-DECK OF AN EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY FRIGATE.

Showing the steering wheels in use.]

I have not been able to find any authority which would settle the
date when wheels for steering a ship were first invented; but I am
convinced that it was somewhere about the middle of the eighteenth
century. Hutchinson, whose “Practical Seamanship” was published in
1777, speaks of the steering wheel in the following terms: “The great
advantages experienced from steering a ship with this excellent machine
has occasioned it to become more and more in use; even small ships that
have their tillers upon deck frequently now steer with a wheel.” And he
states that most of these wheels have eight spokes, though large ships
have a ten-spoked wheel.

