The Newcastle colliers, of which we were speaking just now, had
anything but good charts to guide them, and their methods of coasting
are certainly worth noting. About two-thirds of their voyage from
Newcastle-on-Tyne to the Pool of London will be found to have consisted
of navigating in the region of dangerous shoals. And yet in that
eighteenth century, even though they had not a really reliable chart
between them, hundreds of these little brigs used to sail backwards
and forwards between the metropolis and the north with scarcely ever a
shipwreck. Indeed, so few were the losses that the owners very rarely
had their craft insured. That meant that they could afford to carry
their coal, iron, timber, hemp, flax, or whatever it might be, at
low freights. There was keen competition to get their goods first to
market, and some very sportive passages were made. The last of these
interesting old craft, so cleverly handled, so fascinating as they must
have been to watch, I believe ended her days in a North Sea gale not
very long since.

[Illustration: COLLIER BRIG DISCHARGING HER CARGO.

After E. W. COOKE.]

Hutchinson’s enthusiasm for these is infectious. He has no literary
power of expression, but in the plain, staccato language of a hard
merchant sailor and privateer he makes one jealous of the sights which
he saw with his own eyes and can never be seen again. There is not
to-day--certainly as regards British waters--any such craft as a brig,
unless there is one small training ship still cruising about Plymouth
Sound. But in his day one sometimes saw a fleet of 300 of them all
turning to windward, having every one of them come out of the Tyne on
the same tide. The sight of so many fine little ships crossing and
recrossing each other’s bows so quickly, and with such little room,
made a distinguished Frenchman hold up his hands, and remark “that it
was there France was conquered.”

In going through such shallow and narrow channels as Yarmouth Roads
the fleet collected themselves for mutual safety. In the absence of
good charts and efficient buoyage--it was not till 1830 that the
singular distinction of producing the worst charts passed away from
England--it was essential to use great caution in such strong tideways.
The procedure was, therefore, as follows: The fleet being now together,
each ship had a man in the chains heaving his lead. He sung out the
soundings loud enough for his neighbours to hear. This happened in
every ship; so that those vessels announcing shoal water would be
recognised as getting too near the sands; that other bunch of craft
declaring consistently deeper water would be in the channel, and the
rest could follow their lead. In this manner the best water was always
found.

