Anyone who has navigated up or down the Swin Channel at the entrance to
the Thames Estuary knows that the region is full of shoals, made still
more dangerous by the strong tides which set athwart them. In clear
weather the excellent modern buoyage makes the passage easy. But in the
eighteenth century, and in thick weather, when the fleet from Newcastle
came to the Swin, they hoped to have a head wind, and not to be able
to lie their course. Why? Well, they smelt their way by continuous
soundings, and if they were beating to windward they would find as they
prolonged each tack the water began to shoal; it was then time to ’bout
ship, and they stood on the other tack till the shallow water warned
them once more. But if they had had a fair wind and been able to keep
straight on, they ran the risk, they said, of getting piled up on the
wrong side of the sand-spits in some swatch-way. Therefore the fleet
adopted clever tactics. The lesser draught ships endeavoured to wait
till the bigger vessels passed ahead. The former would then follow
close behind, knowing that if the largest craft could float, so also
could they. But when the bigger ships found the water shoaling, they,
too, would let go anchor and let the smaller ships go ahead. Then the
tide having flooded still more, and the small fry having been observed
to be all right, up came the cables and the procession went on its
way. It was just because these vessels had to experience such a great
deal of anchor work that they held the record of any ships afloat for
breaking out their hooks with their windlass in the shortest time.
Whenever an ex-collier’s crew shipped aboard another vessel, it was
found that the windlass needed half the men to do the work.

[Illustration: AN EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY MAN-OF-WAR.

The illustration shows a three-decker in a shipbuilder’s yard ready for
launching.]

[Illustration: COLLIER BRIGS BEATING UP THE SWIN.]

Those were the days of real seamanship of all kinds and sorts, so we
can afford in these modern times to admire a lost art. “Nice managers
of sloop-rigged vessels,” says this fine old skipper, “turning to
windward in narrow channels, when they want but little to weather a
point, rather than make another tack, have a practice of running up
in the wind till the headway ceases, then they fill again upon the
same tack; this they call making a half board.” But Hutchinson had
no great faith in “weather-glasses,” and even doubts “their being of
any great service to seafaring people.” However, he does admit that
on one occasion he had warning of an approaching storm in the English
Channel from Tampion’s portable barometer. About seventy sailing ships
had got under way from the Downs with a moderate south-east breeze. In
the morning the quicksilver fell from 29½ inches to 28½. He had all
his small sails up, and ordered all hands to set to work and take
in the small sails and lower the t’gallant yards. About eight in the
evening the storm came on, the ship being now abreast of the Lizard,
the wind having shifted to south-south-east. Suddenly it flew round
to north-north-west, blew very strongly, and though he had no canvas
aloft except the foresail in brails, yet it laid the ship more down on
her broadside than ever he had known her. Later on they passed a ship
bottom upwards, which had obviously foundered in the same squall.

