There is nothing new, apparently, even in sea-sayings. Probably there
is not an officer to-day in the Merchant Service who has never heard
the maxim, “Better to break owners than orders.” Well, Hutchinson knew
this phrase, and used it not for trading, but for privateering. The
owners’ orders were usually “to proceed with all possible expedition
to the designed station to take prizes.” And he had a very ingenious
device, which, if I mistake not, was actually resurrected and tried
with modifications in Southampton Water three or four years ago.
Hutchinson’s idea was to scrub ships’ bottoms while at sea instead
of having to bring them to dock or careen them. He had himself used
this new method, which could easily be performed while at anchor or
on the ocean in a calm. The device consisted of a frame of elm-boards
enclosing a couple of 10-gallon casks with square spaces each side
filled with birch-broom stuff that projected and was to come in contact
with the ship’s bottom. To use this a block was lashed under the
bowsprit, and another at the stern on the driver boom. A single rope
was rove through these blocks just long enough to haul the scrubber,
which did its work fore-and-aftwise underneath the ship.

The accompanying illustration may seem to the reader a fanciful
picture, but it is nothing of the kind, and was made from a sketch
done on the spot. In this will be noticed a ship with no fewer than
thirty different sails. Hutchinson declares that in a light air--when
he needed all the canvas he could spread--he turned to windward with
all the sail drawing. As an ingenious piece of seamanship it is worthy
of note, and surpasses the achievements of the clippers with their
reputation for skysails and moonrakers. He speaks of the sail on the
aftermost mast as the mizzen, and that curious-looking canvas right at
the stern as a large driver with a light boom to make it set properly.
There were two tail blocks at the outer end thereof, lashed to the
rail; and in order that it might set better a bowline was attached.
Below this will be observed the strange sight of a water-sail _aft_ as
well as forward. It was really a foretopmast stuns’l, and was hauled
out to the end of the boom of the driver. As an example of what an
ingenious skipper could do to get way on his ship in light airs, I
think this illustration will be impossible to beat.

