When Hood sent his dispatch to the Controller of the Navy announcing
the victory of the British fleet at the Battle of the Saints in 1782,
he made reference to some of Rodney’s signals, e.g. for a general
chase; to steer more to starboard or port; to shorten sail; to set more
canvas; and if the admiral should wish to order his ships to cease
firing, “the white flag at the fore topgallant masthead, before dark,
calls every ship in.” There were also night signals in use in the Royal
Navy about this time. Thus, for instance, when the admiral wished to
order his fleet to unmoor and ride short he hung out three lights,
one above another, in the main topmast shrouds above the “constant”
light in the maintop, and fired two guns, which were answered by the
flagships, each private ship hanging out a light in her mizzen shrouds.
So also when the signal was being given to weigh anchor, the admiral
hung out some light on the maintopmast shrouds and fired a gun, which
was answered by the flagships and private ships as before.

[Illustration: AN EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY THREE-DECKER.]

Apart altogether from the unsatisfactory kind of seamen which often
made up the crews of the English Navy, matters were far from ideal
among their officers. There was a spirit of decadence even here. When
Benbow was sent to the Spanish Main to seize Cartagena, and fell in
with the French, his own captains disobeyed orders, kept out of action,
and allowed Benbow to fight the enemy practically single-handed.
Similarly, when Matthews was in the Mediterranean attacking the
combined Spanish-French fleets, he was basely betrayed by Lestock, who
kept astern out of action. As the result of an inquiry, not only was
Lestock not punished, but Matthews, who happened to sit in Parliament
on the side of the Opposition, had his name struck off the Navy List.
There are, unfortunately, too many instances of this kind of thing on
record during this century. Some were loyal and straightforward, but
none the less inefficient. The captains, wrote Admiral Keppel to Lord
Hawke in August, 1778, “are indeed fine officers, and the ships
are fine. Some of them, indeed, want more experience in discipline to
do all that can be expected from them, but a complete fleet cannot
be formed in a day. Our greatest want is petty officers, and that
deficiency is general.” And then, you will remember, all the discontent
among the seamen culminated in the year 1797, when a series of mutinies
broke out. The first was at Spithead, when Lord Bridport was about to
take his fleet to sea. He had made the signal to unmoor, when suddenly
every ship’s company gave three cheers and refused to go until their
pay was increased. They made one exception, however; if the French
fleet were out then they would put to sea to fight them, otherwise
they declined to go. Lieutenant Philip Beaver, who was serving on the
_Monarch_, writing to his sister two days after this event, admits that
with one exception all the crews behaved “with great prudence, decency,
and moderation ... and obey their officers as before in the regular
routine of ship’s duty--saying that they are not dissatisfied with
their officers or the service, but are determined to have an increase
of pay, because it has not been increased since the time of Charles the
First, and that everything since that period has risen 50 per cent,
that no attention had been paid to their petitions.” Eventually the
statements of the men were found to be well substantiated, and they
were pardoned. But there was another mutiny on May 7; six days later
another broke out at the Nore, and in the same month among the men of
Admiral Duncan’s fleet off the Texel, and even in Jervis’ fleet off
Cadiz.

