In no respect is the canker of the eighteenth century better shown
than in the condition of tactics displayed by the admirals of this
time. During the Anglo-Dutch wars, many a valuable and wholesome
lesson had been learned by the English Navy, but the Battle of Malaga
in 1704 showed that instead of tactical progress being made, the age
had become--to quote an apt expression of Admiral Mahan--“the epoch
of mere seamanship.” As soon as inspiration deserts art, we all know
how valueless becomes mere technique. It was much the same with
eighteenth-century tactics. There was not a breath of inspiration; it
was a period of formality, of stiff insincerity both ashore and afloat.
The curse of our policy in fighting naval battles was the fetish of
the cast-iron tactics which no officer dared to modify. It was not
till Hawke came swooping down that these lifeless, formal affairs
began to improve. Till his time there was far greater respect for the
letter than the spirit of tactics, so that a naval battle between the
English and her enemy was just this: the English fleet came along in
line-ahead, and then each ship laid herself alongside the corresponding
ship of the enemy’s line, with the result that there was a series of
duels.

Hawke’s idea was not that, but to concentrate his whole force against
a part of the enemy’s fleet, and this idea was carried out by Rodney,
when he defeated the French at the Battle of the Saints in 1782. It
is true that the signal book then in use in the Royal Navy, plus the
inefficient state of the service generally, caused Rodney’s signal to
be misunderstood. But it turned out better than it might have done.
In medieval times, the great idea was to lay your ship aboard the
other ship and fight her to a finish. Then, the reader will remember,
came the Cromwellian period, which altered all this. But instead of
continuing this progress, the eighteenth century actually reverted to
the medieval method, and this was the practice against which Hawke and
Rodney set their faces determinedly.

