[Illustration: THE “INVINCIBLE” AND “GLORIOSO.”

Showing the highly decorated sterns and poop-lanterns of the eighteenth
century.]

In the matter of tactics, as in shipbuilding, the French were decidedly
our superiors. And our officers--or, at any rate, those who were keen
and zealous for the service--recognised this. “I believe you will,
with me, think it something surprising,” wrote Captain Kempenfelt to
the Comptroller of the Navy, “that we, who have been so long a famous
maritime power, should not yet have established any regular rules for
the orderly and expeditious performance of the several evolutions
necessary to be made in a fleet. The French have long since set us the
example.... Oh, but ’tis said by several, our men are better seamen
than the French. But the management of a private ship and a fleet
are as different from each other as the exercising of a firelock and
the conducting of an army.... The men who are best disciplined, of
whatever country they are, will always fight the best.... In fine, if
you will neither give an internal discipline for your ships, nor a
system of tactics for the evolutions of your fleet, I don’t know from
what you are to expect success.... We should, therefore, immediately
and in earnest set about a reform; endeavours should be used to find
out proper persons, and encouragement offered for such to write on
naval tactics, as also to translate what the French have published on
that subject. They should also enter into the plan of education at our
marine academies.” The date of this letter was January 18, 1780, and
in saying what he did Captain Kempenfelt was placing his finger on the
real point of the matter.

It was two years after this that John Clerk published his “Essay on
Naval Tactics.” British officers of this period had a supreme contempt
for book learning, just as the simpler sort of seaman has to-day. But
it was not till Clerk published the above book that officers began
to change their mind. Up till now works on tactics had been French.
Clerk’s was the first volume on this subject in the English tongue.
It is not too much to assert that this completely revolutionised
British naval tactics, and that to its teaching were largely due the
victories of Rodney, Howe, Duncan, and St. Vincent. And the interesting
fact was that it was written not by an officer, but by a layman; not
by a seaman, but by a Scotch laird. Those who are attracted by the
subject of tactics will find much in this book that is instructive,
even though steam and steel ships and our present-day weapons never
entered into Clerk’s contemplation. And the numerous plans criticising
actual contemporary sea fights will be found most helpful to a complete
understanding of the nautical events of this period.

