It was in the middle of the reign of George II that a regular uniform
was first adopted for the officers of the English Navy. Hitherto they
had worn the same kind of clothes which their contemporaries wore in
the streets ashore. Every man dressed in the manner he preferred. But
in the year 1747 the question of a uniform colour and pattern was being
discussed when the King himself settled the point. It happened on this
wise. A certain admiral had been sent to the Admiralty on an entirely
different matter by the Duke of Bedford, who was then First Lord. He
was ushered into an apartment surrounded by various dresses, and was
asked to state which of these he considered the most appropriate; to
which the admiral answered that he thought blue or red, _or_ red and
blue, since these were our national colours. “No,” replied the Duke,
“the King has determined otherwise; for having seen my Duchess riding
in the Park a few days ago, in a habit of blue, faced with white, the
dress took the fancy of His Majesty, who has appointed it for the
uniform of the Royal Navy.”[52] Since that time, as the reader is
aware, these two colours, blue and white, have remained the colours of
our Navy, although the cut of the clothes has altered from time to time.

[Illustration: A 32-GUN FRIGATE READY FOR LAUNCHING.

This shows H.M.S. _Cleopatra_ (built in 1779) in her cradle, ready to
go down the ways. She measured 126·4 feet on gun-deck, 35·2 feet wide,
depth 12·1 feet, and was of 689 tons.]

We alluded just now to the introduction of wheels on board sailing
ships, and endeavoured to fix the date as approximately the middle of
this century. The following account of the Great Storm on November
27, 1703 (in which no fewer than thirteen men-o’-war were lost, many
more seriously damaged, and the Eddystone lighthouse destroyed), shows
that tillers, as in Elizabethan days, were still used, and the wheel
not yet invented. The following is the autograph report by Admiral
Sir Cloudesley Shovel, commanding a squadron of eight ships in the
Downs. The fact that the ships drifted all the way from the Downs to
the Galloper (in the North Sea) gives some indication of the fury of
that autumn hurricane. This dispatch is among the MSS. preserved in the
British Museum:--

