“On Saturday last soone in the morning wee had a most miserable
Storme of Wind, which drove us to some Streights, for after wee had
veerrd out more than three Cables of our best bower that Anchor
broke, soon after our Tillar broke, and before we could secure our
Rudder it broke from our Sterne, and has shaken our Stern Post
that we prove very leakey, and had our four Chaine Pumps and a
hand Pump goeing to keep us free. We lett go our Sheete Anchor,
and veered out all the Cables to it, butt that did not ride us,
butt wee drove near a sand called the Galloper, of which we saw the
breach; I directed the Maine Mast to be cutt by the Board, after
which we ridd fast. Of eight Ships that came out of the Downes
four are missing, the _Association_, _Russell_, _Revenge_, and
_Dorsettshire_; pray God they drove cleare of the sand....

“P.S. I doubt it has farr’d worse with the four Ships that have
drove away than it has done with us: I have some hopes that some
of them have drove to Sea; but if so they are without Anchors or
Cables and may be without Masts: I judge it will be of Service if
some Frigg^t were sent out to looke for them.”

And yet there was at least one ship which had the wheel invention in
the year 1747. In Hawke’s dispatch to the Secretary to the Admiralty,
recording the action off Rochelle, in August, 1747, after relating
that he kept his wind as close as possible so as to help the _Eagle_
and _Edinburgh_, which had lost her foretopmast, he relates that “this
attempt of ours was frustrated by the _Eagle’s_ falling twice on board
us, having had her wheel shot to pieces.” We may, therefore, fix the
date of the first steering wheel as not earlier than 1703, and not
later than 1747.




CHAPTER XIII

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY


The first sixty or seventy years of the nineteenth century saw the
art of the seaman at its highest state of perfection. There was never
anything to equal it either before or since in the achievements
rendered by the sailors who manned the famous “wooden walls” of
Nelson’s time, who took the stately East Indiaman backwards and
forwards with so much ceremony and safety, or hurried along the tea
clipper at a continuous rate which has never since been surpassed by
any fleet of sail-propelled ships.

