At the beginning of the nineteenth century there were royal dockyards
at Chatham, Portsmouth, Plymouth, Deptford, Woolwich, and Sheerness;
and here His Majesty’s ships were generally moored in the piping times
of peace. The first three of these yards were governed by a resident
commissioner, who superintended all the musters of the officers,
artificers, and labourers employed in the dockyard. He controlled
the payments, examined the accounts, contracts, etc., and generally
regulated the dockyard. Large ships, such as those mighty wooden walls
which could carry a hundred guns, were usually built in dry dock,
with strong flood gates to prevent the tide from coming in. When
the time came for launching, and it was spring tides, the gates were
opened and the ship floated out. But small craft, such as frigates
and corvettes, were built on the slips, and then launched by means of
a cradle which sped down the ways, the latter having been previously
greased with soap or tallow.

[Illustration: LAUNCHING A MAN-OF-WAR IN THE YEAR 1805.]

The oak of which these craft were built usually came from the Forest
of Dean, Gloucestershire, and the New Forest, Hants. But as ships
were built out in the open, the weather got into the wood and rotted
it, so that sometimes a ship was condemned before she was ever put in
commission; and, in any case, the life of some wooden walls was under
ten years. Others lasted for a long period, as, for instance, Nelson’s
_Victory_, which was built in the year 1765. The method of building
was curiously medieval, and almost Viking-like in its simplicity. The
timbers were secured by treenails to the planking. They were preferred
to spike-nails or bolts, as the latter were liable to rust with the sea
water and get loose. The thickness of the treenail was proportioned to
the length of the ship, one inch being allowed to every hundred feet.
In the Royal Navy and in the East India Service ships were always
sheathed with copper to protect the hull against worms. The copper was
quite thin, brown paper being inserted between the sheathing and the
oak. Other ships than these two classes had thin deal boards nailed
over the outside of the bottom for the same purpose.

