There was but little light ’tween decks in these ships even by day, and
the glimmer of a purser’s dip was the only illumination. The magazines,
however, were lighted through what was termed a “light-room.” The
latter was a small apartment with double-glass windows towards the
magazine. No candle could, of course, be taken into the latter, so the
gunner and his assistants filled their cartridges with powder by the
candles shining through the windows. In the bigger men-o’-war there
were two light-rooms; one attached to the after magazine, and the other
which gave light to the fore or great magazine. The after magazine
contained just enough supply of cartridges for the after guns during
action, but the great magazine had enough powder for the ship for a
long period.

The cables were usually of 120 fathoms and made of hemp, bass, or
Indian grass, though the biggest ships used hemp exclusively for their
heavy anchors. The change from hemp to chain cables came in 1812, and
these were much appreciated as saving a great deal of valuable space
below. For the hemp cables when coiled down in a frigate’s cable-tier
filled nearly a quarter of her hold, and when it is remembered that
a 1000-ton ship had a cable measuring over 8 inches in diameter, and
that a 2⅛-inch chain was just as strong--the breaking strain exceeded
65 tons--but took up less space, we can well understand that hemp was
not altogether an advantage, notwithstanding that in bad weather these
heavy, bluff ships would ride far easier to the rope than the chain.
The largest anchor used weighed five tons. It had a wooden stock and
broad palms.

Because these hemp cables were so thick there must needs be very
large hawse-pipes. Now these ships not only rolled; they pitched
in a sea-way, and consequently they took in a great deal of water
through these pipes. In order to prevent the water getting adrift all
over the ship, there was a large compartment fitted up just abaft
the hawse-pipes and called the manger. This stretched athwart the
deck, separated on the after part by the manger-board, which was a
strong bulkhead, the water being allowed to return to the sea through
scuppers. Leather pipes were nailed round the outside of the lower-deck
scuppers, which, by hanging down, prevented the water from entering
when the ship heeled under a press of canvas.

