The cables led in through the hawse-pipes below deck to the bitts. To
bitt the cable was to put it round the bitts, which were frames of
strong timbers fixed perpendicularly into the ship. The “bitter end”
was that part of the cable which was abaft the bitts, and not allowed
to run out. Hence the common expression “to the bitter end” has no
reference to the other meaning of the word spelt in a similar way.
These cables were in lengths of 40 fathoms, and then spliced to make
the 120 fathoms. Naturally a heavy ship such as a 100-gun first-rate
carried a great deal of way. When, therefore, the anchor was let go,
the friction of the cable passing through the hawse-pipe was something
enormous, and the hemp became so hot that the tar on its surface often
took fire, therefore men were always stationed to stand by with buckets
of water. Likewise, the bitts and timbers round the heated hawse-pipes
had to be attended to. Another drawback to a rope cable was that it
chafed a great deal. In coral-bottomed waters it was customary to arm
with chains that part which was likely to be worn; and the cable was
also sometimes buoyed with casks lashed at intervals, so as to float
safely above the rough bottom of the sea-bed.

[Illustration: H.M.S. “PRINCE.”

A first-rate of 110 guns, showing the stern balconies as built before
the close sterns were introduced.]

There is an interesting passage in a letter written by Captain Duff
of H.M.S. _Mars_, in 1805, to his wife, in which the following words
occur: “October 10th. I am sorry the rain has begun to-night, as it
will spoil my fine work, having been employed for this week past to
paint the ship _à la_ Nelson, which most of the fleet are doing.”
That, of course, was just a few days before Trafalgar. And there is
a phrase in a letter written by a young midshipman to his father, in
1794, telling him all about the Glorious First of June battle. “The
French ... called us the little devil, and the little black ribband,
as we have a black streak painted on our side.” The explanation of
these two passages is as follows. Up to the beginning of the nineteenth
century it was left to a captain’s own taste to paint his ship whatever
colours he liked. There was no uniformity as to-day, but generally a
ship was painted with a wide black streak along the water-line just
above the copper sheathing. This streak ran right round the ship, and
in depth reached to the lower gun-deck. Above this the hull was painted
a brownish yellow, but sometimes it was more a lemon-colour. The after
upper works above the gun-decks and the outer sides of the poop above
the quarter-deck guns were painted a vivid red or blue.

