[Illustration: THE BRIG “WOLF,”

Formerly in the Royal Navy, hove-to off Dover waiting for the pilot to
come out.]

So also the crews were constantly drilled at their guns and trained to
handle cutlass, musket, and boarding pike. There were two men to every
job, there was plenty of food, and there was no cause for grumbling
at overwork. There was plenty of rum, there were good quarters and
good prospects. And yet for all that there were reckless fellows who
could not realise their good fortune. When they had offended they were
brought before the ship’s court-martial in true naval fashion and
sentenced to the cat-o’-nine-tails. And no man could complain that
the commander was “driving” his ship; for every evening, no matter
how fine the weather looked, the royals and all light sails such as
studding-sails were stowed, and the royal yards sent down on deck.
No risks were run unnecessarily, and if the weather looked at all
threatening the t’gallant sails and mainsail were stowed and a single
reef tucked into the topsails. The aim was to combine safety with
comfort, and so they snugged down every night, and by day whenever
there was the least temptation. But the East India was a fine service
and a splendid school for British seamanship, a calling that has so
considerably died out during the last forty years. In the year 1832
the valuable monopoly which the East India Company had enjoyed for so
long a time was put an end to. Commerce was thrown open, competition
entirely altered the previous conditions, and at last this fine fleet
was sold and disbanded.

[Illustration: A FRIGATE UNDER ALL SAIL.]

[Illustration: MAN IN THE CHAINS HEAVING THE LEAD ON AN OLD WOODEN
SAILING SHIP.

(From a contemporary lithograph.)]

But it was the period of the clipper which simultaneously brought
seamanship to unheard-of attainment, and chanted its swan-song. The
period is covered roughly by the years 1840 to 1870. It was introduced
owing to a demand for the more rapid delivery of goods, especially tea,
which does not improve by remaining in a ship’s hold. It was given a
strong impetus by the discovery of gold in California, and the eager
rush of prospectors to reach that part quickly. The rush to Australia
in like manner was a still further impetus to the development of the
clipper ship at the middle of the nineteenth century. The China tea
trade in the ’fifties and ’sixties caused these ships to be improved
and developed and handled to the utmost limits, until the opening of
the Suez Canal in 1869 gave it its death-blow. For a time it lingered,
yet the collateral encouragement of the steamship made it impossible
for the sailing ship to pay her way across the ocean. But there never
have been such smart ocean passages so continuously maintained as by
the China clippers of the ’sixties. There never were better sailing
ships built of wood, and there never were captains who “cracked on”
or crews who could work such big canvas-propelled craft with such
distinction. This was the period when a ship was not content with
t’gallants and royals, but must needs set sky sails and moonrakers.

