[Illustration: H.M.S. “CLEOPATRA” ENDEAVOURING TO SAVE THE CREW OF THE
BRIG “FISHER,” 200 TONS, ON OCTOBER 26, 1835.

This incident occurred 82 miles N. ¼ W. off Flamborough Head in a
strong S. W. gale with heavy squalls. The brig had lost her mainmast,
and hailed the _Cleopatra_ for assistance. A boat was therefore lowered
on the _Cleopatra’s_ lee quarter, but stove in and lost. A buoy was
veered astern, but the brig could not pick it up. During the night
the brig foundered with all hands. Liardet in his book on seamanship
suggested that in such an incident as this the best thing would be to
get to windward of the wreck, let down ropes from the lee side, then
signal to the wreck your intention of drifting down to her. The men
could then rescue themselves by the ropes.]

A very fine type of clipper was built in 1859 by Messrs. Robert Steel
and Son, at Greenock, to which class belonged such famous ships as the
_Falcon_ and _Fiery Cross_. They were beautifully designed craft and
splendidly built, with ample deck space for working the ship and small
deck-houses, and were kept up almost as smartly as a modern sailing
yacht with polished brass-work, holystoned decks, and well-found gear.
The clipper _Seaforth_, which was built in 1863, brought about
quite a revolution in the sailing ship’s equipment, for she was the
first sailing vessel to have steel spars and wire rigging. Her lower
masts, her topmasts, and her topsail yards and bowsprit were all steel
likewise.

[Illustration: H.M.S. “HASTINGS,” 74 GUNS.

Lying “in Ordinary” in the Medway.]

In one respect these old tea clippers were curiously medieval, though
the practice continued also in the ships of the Royal Navy till well on
into the nineteenth century. This was in the matter of loose ballast.
These tea clippers carried about 300 tons of shingle ballast laid
evenly along the bottom of the ship, and upon this shingle were laid
the chests of tea, and considerable dunnage was put in as well. These
ships had a registered tonnage of about 700 tons, and could carry
about 1000 tons of tea. They were worked by a crew of about thirty;
they were captained by skippers of the utmost ability and prudence,
who, unlike the East Indiaman captains, did not worry about snugging
down at nightfall, but first and foremost were bent on getting the
cargo to the London river in the least possible time. They “cracked
on” and undertook risks in gales of wind which would have terrified
many another commander. But it was to their interests to make smart
passages. Some of them were part-owners, and there was a premium of
ten shillings a ton to the skipper who landed the first cargo of a
season’s tea. Thus, in addition to his other emoluments, there was a
chance of making an extra £500 after a quick voyage. Many of the crews
had served their time in sailing ships of the Royal Navy, so a captain
could rely on getting the best out of his fine ship. Some of these
skippers retired with large fortunes; but the premium system led to a
great deal of jealousy and unpleasantness. For it might happen--it did,
in fact, occur--that one ship might make the fastest sailing passage
to Dungeness and yet get her package of tea ashore some time after
the second vessel, simply because the latter had been fortunate in
picking up a more powerful tug to tow her from Dungeness to London. So,
eventually, this premium method had to be abandoned.

