THE NORMAN W. HENLEY PUBLISHING COMPANY


*      *      *      *      *


AVIATION ENGINES

Design--Construction--Operation and Repair

A Complete, Practical Treatise Outlining Clearly
the Elements of Internal Combustion Engineering
with Special Reference to the Design, Construction,
Operation and Repair of Airplane Power
Plants; Also the Auxiliary Engine Systems, Such
as Lubrication, Carburetion, Ignition and Cooling.

It Includes Complete Instructions for Engine
Repairing and Systematic Location of Troubles,
Tool Equipment and Use of Tools, Also Outlines
the Latest Mechanical Processes.

by

FIRST LIEUT. VICTOR W. PAGÉ, A. S. S. C., U. S. R.

Assistant Engineering Officer, Signal Corps Aviation School,
Mineola, L. I.

Author of "The Modern Gasoline Automobile," Etc.

[Illustration]

Contains Valuable Instructions for All Aviation Students,
Mechanicians, Squadron Engineering Officers and All Interested in
the Construction and Upkeep of Airplane Power Plants.







New York
The Norman W. Henley Publishing Company
2 West 45th Street
1917

Copyrighted, 1917
By
The Norman W. Henley Publishing Co.

Printed in U. S. A.

All Illustrations in This Book Have Been
Specially Made by the Publishers, and Their
Use, Without Permission, Is Strictly Prohibited

Composition, Electrotyping and Presswork
by the Publishers Printing Co., New York




PREFACE


In presenting this treatise on "Aviation Engines," the writer realizes
that the rapidly developing art makes it difficult to outline all latest
forms or describe all current engineering practice. This exposition has
been prepared primarily for instruction purposes and is adapted for men
in the Aviation Section, Signal Corps, and students who wish to become
aviators or aviation mechanicians. Every effort has been made to have
the engineering information accurate, but owing to the diversity of
authorities consulted and use of data translated from foreign language
periodicals, it is expected that some slight errors will be present. The
writer wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to such firms as the
Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Co., Hall-Scott Company, Thomas-Morse
Aircraft Corporation and General Vehicle Company for photographs and
helpful descriptive matter. Special attention has been paid to
instructions on tool equipment, use of tools, trouble "shooting" and
engine repairs, as it is on these points that the average aviation
student is weakest. Only such theoretical consideration of
thermo-dynamics as was deemed absolutely necessary to secure a proper
understanding of engine action after consulting several instructors is
included, the writer's efforts having been confined to the preparation
of a practical series of instructions that would be of the greatest
value to those who need a diversified knowledge of internal-combustion
engine operation and repair, and who must acquire it quickly. The
engines described and illustrated are all practical forms that have been
fitted to airplanes capable of making flights and may be considered
fairly representative of the present state of the art.

