LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS




AVIATION ENGINES

DESIGN--CONSTRUCTION--REPAIR




CHAPTER I

Brief Consideration of Aircraft Types--Essential Requirements of
Aerial Motors--Aviation Engines Must Be Light--Factors
Influencing Power Needed--Why Explosive Motors Are Best--
Historical--Main Types of Internal Combustion Engines.


BRIEF CONSIDERATION OF AIRCRAFT TYPES

The conquest of the air is one of the most stupendous achievements of
the ages. Human flight opens the sky to man as a new road, and because
it is a road free of all obstructions and leads everywhere, affording
the shortest distance to any place, it offers to man the prospect of
unlimited freedom. The aircraft promises to span continents like
railroads, to bridge seas like ships, to go over mountains and forests
like birds, and to quicken and simplify the problems of transportation.
While the actual conquest of the air is an accomplishment just being
realized in our days, the idea and yearning to conquer the air are old,
possibly as old as intellect itself. The myths of different races tell
of winged gods and flying men, and show that for ages to fly was the
highest conception of the sublime. No other agent is more responsible
for sustained flight than the internal combustion motor, and it was only
when this form of prime mover had been fully developed that it was
possible for man to leave the ground and alight at will, not depending
upon the caprices of the winds or lifting power of gases as with the
balloon. It is safe to say that the solution of the problem of flight
would have been attained many years ago if the proper source of power
had been available as all the essential elements of the modern
aeroplane and dirigible balloon, other than the power plant, were known
to early philosophers and scientists.

Aeronautics is divided into two fundamentally different
branches--aviatics and aerostatics. The first comprises all types of
aeroplanes and heavier than air flying machines such as the helicopters,
kites, etc.; the second includes dirigible balloons, passive balloons
and all craft which rise in the air by utilizing the lifting force of
gases. Aeroplanes are the only practical form of heavier-than-air
machines, as the helicopters (machines intended to be lifted directly
into the air by propellers, without the sustaining effect of planes),
and ornithopters, or flapping wing types, have not been thoroughly
developed, and in fact, there are so many serious mechanical problems to
be solved before either of these types of air craft will function
properly that experts express grave doubts regarding the practicability
of either. Aeroplanes are divided into two main types--monoplanes or
single surface forms, and bi-planes or machines having two sets of
lifting surfaces, one suspended over the other. A third type, the
triplane, is not very widely used.

