Dirigible balloons are divided into three classes: the rigid, the
semi-rigid, and the non-rigid. The rigid has a frame or skeleton of
either wood or metal inside of the bag, to stiffen it; the semi-rigid is
reinforced by a wire net and metal attachments; while the non-rigid is
just a bag filled with gas. The aeroplane, more than the dirigible and
balloon, stands as the emblem of the conquest of the air. Two reasons
for this are that power flight is a real conquest of the air, a real
victory over the battling elements; secondly, because the aeroplane, or
any flying machine that may follow, brings air travel within the reach
of everybody. In practical development, the dirigible may be the
steamship of the air, which will render invaluable services of a certain
kind, and the aeroplane will be the automobile of the air, to be used by
the multitude, perhaps for as many purposes as the automobile is now
being used.


ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS OF AERIAL MOTORS

One of the marked features of aircraft development has been the effect
it has had upon the refinement and perfection of the internal combustion
motor. Without question gasoline-motors intended for aircraft are the
nearest to perfection of any other type yet evolved. Because of the
peculiar demands imposed upon the aeronautical motor it must possess all
the features of reliability, economy and efficiency now present with
automobile or marine engines and then must have distinctive points of
its own. Owing to the unstable nature of the medium through which it is
operated and the fact that heavier-than-air machines can maintain flight
only as long as the power plant is functioning properly, an airship
motor must be more reliable than any used on either land or water. While
a few pounds of metal more or less makes practically no difference in a
marine motor and has very little effect upon the speed or hill-climbing
ability of an automobile, an airship motor must be as light as it is
possible to make it because every pound counts, whether the motor is to
be fitted into an aeroplane or in a dirigible balloon.

