Airship motors, as a rule, must operate constantly at high speeds in
order to obtain a maximum power delivery with a minimum piston
displacement. In automobiles, or motor boats, motors are not required to
run constantly at their maximum speed. Most aircraft motors must
function for extended periods at speed as nearly the maximum as
possible. Another thing that militates against the aircraft motor is the
more or less unsteady foundation to which it is attached. The
necessarily light framework of the aeroplane makes it hard for a motor
to perform at maximum efficiency on account of the vibration of its
foundation while the craft is in flight. Marine and motor car engines,
while not placed on foundations as firm as those provided for stationary
power plants, are installed on bases of much more stability than the
light structure of an aeroplane. The aircraft motor, therefore, must be
balanced to a nicety and must run steadily under the most unfavorable
conditions.


AERIAL MOTORS MUST BE LIGHT

The capacity of light motors designed for aerial work per unit of mass
is surprising to those not fully conversant with the possibilities that
a thorough knowledge of proportions of parts and the use of special
metals developed by the automobile industry make possible. Activity in
the development of light motors has been more pronounced in France than
in any other country. Some of these motors have been complicated types
made light by the skillful proportioning of parts, others are of the
refined simpler form modified from current automobile practice. There is
a tendency to depart from the freakish or unconventional construction
and to adhere more closely to standard forms because it is necessary to
have the parts of such size that every quality making for reliability,
efficiency and endurance are incorporated in the design. Aeroplane
motors range from two cylinders to forms having fourteen and sixteen
cylinders and the arrangement of these members varies from the
conventional vertical tandem and opposed placing to the V form or the
more unusual radial motors having either fixed or rotary cylinders. The
weight has been reduced so it is possible to obtain a complete power
plant of the revolving cylinder air-cooled type that will not weigh more
than three pounds per actual horse-power and in some cases less than
this.

