If we give brief consideration to the requirements of the aviator it
will be evident that one of the most important is securing maximum power
with minimum mass, and it is desirable to conserve all of the good
qualities existing in standard automobile motors. These are certainty of
operation, good mechanical balance and uniform delivery of
power--fundamental conditions which must be attained before a power
plant can be considered practical. There are in addition, secondary
considerations, none the less desirable, if not absolutely essential.
These are minimum consumption of fuel and lubricating oil, which is
really a factor of import, for upon the economy depends the capacity and
flying radius. As the amount of liquid fuel must be limited the most
suitable motor will be that which is powerful and at the same time
economical. Another important feature is to secure accessibility of
components in order to make easy repair or adjustment of parts possible.
It is possible to obtain sufficiently light-weight motors without
radical departure from established practice. Water-cooled power plants
have been designed that will weigh but four or five pounds per
horse-power and in these forms we have a practical power plant capable
of extended operation.


FACTORS INFLUENCING POWER NEEDED

Work is performed whenever an object is moved against a resistance, and
the amount of work performed depends not only on the amount of
resistance overcome but also upon the amount of time utilized in
accomplishing a given task. Work is measured in horse-power for
convenience. It will take one horse-power to move 33,000 pounds one foot
in one minute or 550 pounds one foot in one second. The same work would
be done if 330 pounds were moved 100 feet in one minute. It requires a
definite amount of power to move a vehicle over the ground at a certain
speed, so it must take power to overcome resistance of an airplane in
the air. Disregarding the factor of air density, it will take more power
as the speed increases if the weight or resistance remains constant, or
more power if the speed remains constant and the resistance increases.
The airplane is supported by air reaction under the planes or lifting
surfaces and the value of this reaction depends upon the shape of the
aerofoil, the amount it is tilted and the speed at which it is drawn
through the air. The angle of incidence or degree of wing tilt regulates
the power required to a certain degree as this affects the speed of
horizontal flight as well as the resistance. Resistance may be of two
kinds, one that is necessary and the other that it is desirable to
reduce to the lowest point possible. There is the wing resistance and
the sum of the resistances of the rest of the machine such as fuselage,
struts, wires, landing gear, etc. If we assume that a certain airplane
offered a total resistance of 300 pounds and we wished to drive it
through the air at a speed of sixty miles per hour, we can find the
horse-power needed by a very simple computation as follows:

