
HISTORICAL

Although the ideal principle of explosive power was conceived some two
hundred years ago, at which time experiments were made with gunpowder as
the explosive element, it was not until the last years of the eighteenth
century that the idea took a patentable shape, and not until about 1826
(Brown's gas-vacuum engine) that a further progress was made in England
by condensing the products of combustion by a jet of water, thus
creating a partial vacuum.

Brown's was probably the first explosive engine that did real work. It
was clumsy and unwieldy and was soon relegated to its place among the
failures of previous experiments. No approach to active explosive effect
in a cylinder was reached in practice, although many ingenious designs
were described, until about 1838 and the following years. Barnett's
engine in England was the first attempt to compress the charge before
exploding. From this time on to about 1860 many patents were issued in
Europe and a few in the United States for gas-engines, but the progress
was slow, and its practical introduction for power came with spasmodic
effect and low efficiency. From 1860 on, practical improvement seems to
have been made, and the Lenoir motor was produced in France and brought
to the United States. It failed to meet expectations, and was soon
followed by further improvements in the Hugon motor in France (1862),
followed by Beau de Rocha's four-cycle idea, which has been slowly
developed through a long series of experimental trials by different
inventors. In the hands of Otto and Langdon a further progress was made,
and numerous patents were issued in England, France, and Germany, and
followed up by an increasing interest in the United States, with a few
patents.

From 1870 improvements seem to have advanced at a steady rate, and
largely in the valve-gear and precision of governing for variable load.
The early idea of the necessity of slow combustion was a great drawback
in the advancement of efficiency, and the suggestion of de Rocha in 1862
did not take root as a prophetic truth until many failures and years of
experience had taught the fundamental axiom that rapidity of action in
both combustion and expansion was the basis of success in explosive
motors.

