With this truth and the demand for small and safe prime movers, the
manufacture of gas-engines increased in Europe and America at a more
rapid rate, and improvements in perfecting the details of this cheap and
efficient prime mover have finally raised it to the dignity of a
standard motor and a dangerous rival of the steam-engine for small and
intermediate powers, with a prospect of largely increasing its
individual units to many hundred, if not to the thousand horse-power in
a single cylinder. The unit size in a single cylinder has now reached to
about 700 horse-power and by combining cylinders in the same machine,
powers of from 1,500 to 2,000 horse-power are now available for large
power-plants.


MAIN TYPES OF INTERNAL-COMBUSTION ENGINES

This form of prime mover has been built in so many different types, all
of which have operated with some degree of success that the diversity in
form will not be generally appreciated unless some attempt is made to
classify the various designs that have received practical application.
Obviously the same type of engine is not universally applicable, because
each class of work has individual peculiarities which can best be met by
an engine designed with the peculiar conditions present in view. The
following tabular synopsis will enable the reader to judge the extent of
the development of what is now the most popular prime mover for all
purposes.

A.  Internal Combustion (Standard Type)
1. Single Acting (Standard Type)
2. Double Acting (For Large Power Only)
3. Simple (Universal Form)
4. Compound (Rarely Used)
5. Reciprocating Piston (Standard Type)
6. Turbine (Revolving Rotor, not fully developed)

A1. Two-Stroke Cycle
a. Two Port
b. Three Port
c. Combined Two and Three Port
d. Fourth Port Accelerator
e. Differential Piston Type
f. Distributor Valve System

A2. Four-Stroke Cycle
a. Automatic Inlet Valve
b. Mechanical Inlet Valve
c. Poppet or Mushroom Valve
d. Slide Valve
d 1. Sleeve Valve
d 2. Reciprocating Ring Valve
d 3. Piston Valve
e. Rotary Valves
e 1. Disc
e 2. Cylinder or Barrel
e 3. Single Cone
e 4. Double Cone
f. Two Piston (Balanced Explosion)
g. Rotary Cylinder, Fixed Crank (Aerial)
h. Fixed Cylinder, Rotary Crank (Standard Type)

