Of all the types enumerated above engines having less than eight
cylinders are the most popular in everything but aircraft work. The
four-cylinder vertical is without doubt the most widely used of all
types owing to the large number employed as automobile power plants.
Stationary engines in small and medium powers are invariably of the
single or double form. Three-cylinder engines are seldom used at the
present time, except in marine work and in some stationary forms.
Eight- and twelve-cylinder motors have received but limited application
and practically always in automobiles, racing motor boats or in aircraft.
The only example of a fourteen-cylinder motor to be used to any extent
is incorporated in aeroplane construction. This is also true of the
sixteen- and eighteen-cylinder forms and of twenty-four-cylinder engines
now in process of development.

The duty an engine is designed for determines the weight per
horse-power. High powered engines intended for steady service are always
of the slow speed type and consequently are of very massive
construction. Various forms of heavy duty type stationary engines are
shown at Fig. 2. Some of these engines may weigh as much as 600 pounds
per horse-power. A further study is possible by consulting data given on
Figs. 3 and 4. As the crank-shaft speed increases and cylinders are
multiplied the engines become lighter. While the big stationary power
plants may run for years without attention, airplane engines require
rebuilding after about 60 to 80 hours air service for the fixed cylinder
types and 40 hours or less for the rotary cylinder air-cooled forms.
There is evidently a decrease in durability and reliability as the
weight is lessened. These illustrations also permit of obtaining a good
idea of the variety of forms internal combustion engines are made in.




CHAPTER II

Operating Principles of Two- and Four-Stroke Engines--Four-cycle
Action--Two-cycle Action--Comparing Two- and Four-cycle Types--
Theory of Gas and Gasoline Engine--Early Gas-Engine Forms--
Isothermal Law--Adiabatic Law--Temperature Computations--Heat
and Its Work--Conversion of Heat to Power--Requisites for Best
Power Effect.

