
OPERATING PRINCIPLES OF TWO- AND FOUR-STROKE CYCLE ENGINES

Before discussing the construction of the various forms of internal
combustion engines it may be well to describe the operating cycle of the
types most generally used. The two-cycle engine is the simplest because
there are no valves in connection with the cylinder, as the gas is
introduced into that member and expelled from it through ports cored
into the cylinder walls. These are covered by the piston at a certain
portion of its travel and uncovered at other parts of its stroke. In the
four-cycle engine the explosive gas is admitted to the cylinder through
a port at the head end closed by a valve, while the exhaust gas is
expelled through another port controlled in a similar manner. These
valves are operated by mechanism distinct from the piston.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.--Outlining First Two Strokes of Piston in
Four-Cycle Engine.]

The action of the four-cycle type may be easily understood if one refers
to illustrations at Figs. 5 and 6. It is called the "four-stroke engine"
because the piston must make four strokes in the cylinder for each
explosion or power impulse obtained. The principle of the gas-engine of
the internal combustion type is similar to that of a gun, i.e., power is
obtained by the rapid combustion of some explosive or other quick
burning substance. The bullet is driven out of the gun barrel by the
pressure of the gas evolved when the charge of powder is ignited. The
piston or movable element of the gas-engine is driven from the closed
or head end to the crank end of the cylinder by a similar expansion of
gases resulting from combustion. The first operation in firing a gun or
securing an explosion in the cylinder of the gas-engine is to fill the
combustion space with combustible material. This is done by a down
stroke of the piston during which time the inlet valve opens to admit
the gaseous charge to the cylinder interior. This operation is shown at
Fig. 5, A. The second operation is to compress this gas which is done by
an upward stroke of the piston as shown at Fig. 5, B. When the top of
the compression stroke is reached, the gas is ignited and the piston is
driven down toward the open end of the cylinder, as indicated at Fig. 6,
C. The fourth operation or exhaust stroke is performed by the return
upward movement of the piston as shown at Fig. 6, D during which time
the exhaust valve is opened to permit the burnt gases to leave the
cylinder. As soon as the piston reaches the top of its exhaust stroke,
the energy stored in the fly-wheel rim during the power stroke causes
that member to continue revolving and as the piston again travels on
its down stroke the inlet valve opens and admits a charge of fresh gas
and the cycle of operations is repeated.

