[Illustration: Fig. 6.--Outlining Second Two Strokes of Piston in
Four-Cycle Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 7.--Sectional View of L Head Gasoline Engine
Cylinder Showing Piston Movements During Four-Stroke Cycle.]

The illustrations at Fig. 7 show how the various cycle functions take
place in an L head type water cooled cylinder engine. The sections at A
and C are taken through the inlet valve, those at B and D are taken
through the exhaust valve.

The two-cycle engine works on a different principle, as while only the
combustion chamber end of the piston is employed to do useful work in
the four-cycle engine, both upper and lower portions are called upon to
perform the functions necessary to two-cycle engine operation. Instead
of the gas being admitted into the cylinder as is the case with the
four-stroke engine, it is first drawn into the engine base where it
receives a preliminary compression prior to its transfer to the working
end of the cylinder. The views at Fig. 8 should indicate clearly the
operation of the two-port two-cycle engine. At A the piston is seen
reaching the top of its stroke and the gas above the piston is being
compressed ready for ignition, while the suction in the engine base
causes the automatic valve to open and admits mixture from the
carburetor to the crank case. When the piston reaches the top of its
stroke, the compressed gas is ignited and the piston is driven down on
the power stroke, compressing the gas in the engine base.

[Illustration: Fig. 8.--Showing Two-port, Two-cycle Engine Operation.]

When the top of the piston uncovers the exhaust port the flaming gas
escapes because of its pressure. A downward movement of the piston
uncovers the inlet port opposite the exhaust and permits the fresh gas
to bypass through the transfer passage from the engine base to the
cylinder. The conditions with the intake and exhaust port fully opened
are clearly shown at Fig. 8, C. The deflector plate on the top of the
piston directs the entering fresh gas to the top of the cylinder and
prevents the main portion of the gas stream from flowing out through the
open exhaust port. On the next upstroke of the piston the gas in the
cylinder is compressed and the inlet valve opened, as shown at A to
permit a fresh charge to enter the engine base.

