[Illustration: Fig. 9.--Defining Three-port, Two-cycle Engine Action.]

The operating principle of the three-port, two-cycle engine is
practically the same as that previously described with the exception
that the gas is admitted to the crank-case through a third port in the
cylinder wall, which is uncovered by the piston when that member reaches
the end of its upstroke. The action of the three-port form can be
readily ascertained by studying the diagrams given at Fig. 9.
Combination two- and three-port engines have been evolved and other
modifications made to improve the action.


THE TWO-CYCLE AND FOUR-CYCLE TYPES

In the earlier years of explosive-motor progress was evolved the two
types of motors in regard to the cycles of their operation. The early
attempts to perfect the two-cycle principle were for many years held in
abeyance from the pressure of interests in the four-cycle type, until
its simplicity and power possibilities were demonstrated by Mr. Dugald
Clerk in England, who gave the principles of the two-cycle motor a broad
bearing leading to immediate improvements in design, which has made
further progress in the United States, until at the present time it has
an equal standard value as a motor-power in some applications as its
ancient rival the four-cycle or Otto type, as demonstrated by Beau de
Rocha in 1862.

Thermodynamically, the methods of the two types are equal as far as
combustion is concerned, and compression may favor in a small degree the
four-cycle type as well as the purity of the charge. The cylinder volume
of the two-cycle motor is much smaller per unit of power, and the
enveloping cylinder surface is therefore greater per unit of volume.
Hence more heat is carried off by the jacket water during compression,
and the higher compression available from this tends to increase the
economy during compression which is lost during expansion.

From the above considerations it may be safely stated that a _lower_
temperature and higher pressure of charge at the beginning of
compression is obtained in the two-cycle motor, greater weight of charge
and greater specific power of higher compression resulting in higher
thermal efficiency. The smaller cylinder for the same power of the
two-cycle motor gives less friction surface per impulse than of the
other type; although the crank-chamber pressure may, in a measure,
balance the friction of the four-cycle type. Probably the strongest
points in favor of the two-cycle type are the lighter fly-wheel and the
absence of valves and valve gear, making this type the most simple in
construction and the lightest in weight for its developed power. Yet,
for the larger power units, the four-cycle type will no doubt always
maintain the standard for efficiency and durability of action.

