The distribution of the charge and its degree of mixture with the
remains of the previous explosion in the clearance space, has been a
matter of discussion for both types of explosive motors, with doubtful
results. In Fig. 10, A we illustrate what theory suggests as to the
distribution of the fresh charge in a two-cycle motor, and in Fig. 10, B
what is the probable distribution of the mixture when the piston starts
on its compressive stroke. The arrows show the probable direction of
flow of the fresh charge and burnt gases at the crucial moment.

[Illustration: Fig. 10.--Diagrams Contrasting Action of Two- and
Four-Cycle Cylinders on Exhaust and Intake Stroke.]

In Fig. 10, C is shown the complete out-sweep of the products of
combustion for the full extent of the piston stroke of a four-cycle
motor, leaving only the volume of the clearance to mix with the new
charge and at D the manner by which the new charge sweeps by the
ignition device, keeping it cool and avoiding possibilities of
pre-ignition by undue heating of the terminals of the sparking device.
Thus, by enveloping the sparking device with the pure mixture, ignition
spreads through the charge with its greatest possible velocity, a most
desirable condition in high-speed motors with side-valve chambers and
igniters within the valve chamber.


THEORY OF THE GAS AND GASOLINE ENGINE

The laws controlling the elements that create a power by their expansion
by heat due to combustion, when properly understood, become a matter of
computation in regard to their value as an agent for generating power in
the various kinds of explosive engines. The method of heating the
elements of power in explosive engines greatly widens the limits of
temperature as available in other types of heat-engines. It disposes of
many of the practical troubles of hot-air, and even of steam-engines, in
the simplicity and directness of application of the elements of power.
In the explosive engine the difficulty of conveying heat for producing
expansive effect by convection is displaced by the generation of the
required heat within the expansive element and at the instant of its
useful work. The low conductivity of heat to and from air has been the
great obstacle in the practical development of the hot-air engine;
while, on the contrary, it has become the source of economy and
practicability in the development of the internal-combustion engine.

