The action of air, gas, and the vapors of gasoline and petroleum oil,
whether singly or mixed, is affected by changes of temperature
practically in nearly the same ratio; but when the elements that produce
combustion are interchanged in confined spaces, there is a marked
difference of effect. The oxygen of the air, the hydrogen and carbon of
a gas, or vapor of gasoline or petroleum oil are the elements that by
combustion produce heat to expand the nitrogen of the air and the watery
vapor produced by the union of the oxygen in the air and the hydrogen in
the gas, as well as also the monoxide and carbonic-acid gas that may be
formed by the union of the carbon of gas or vapor with part of the
oxygen of the air. The various mixtures as between air and gas, or air
and vapor, with the proportion of the products of combustion left in the
cylinder from a previous combustion, form the elements to be considered
in estimating the amount of pressure that may be obtained by their
combustion and expansive force.


EARLY GAS ENGINE FORMS

The working process of the explosive motor may be divided into three
principal types: 1. Motors with charges igniting at constant volume
without compression, such as the Lenoir, Hugon, and other similar types
now abandoned as wasteful in fuel and effect. 2. Motors with charges
igniting at constant pressure with compression, in which a receiver is
charged by a pump and the gases burned while being admitted to the motor
cylinder, such as types of the Simon and Brayton engine. 3. Motors with
charges igniting at constant volume with variable compression, such as
the later two- and four-cycle motors with compression of the indrawn
charge; limited in the two-cycle type and variable in the four-cycle
type with the ratios of the clearance space in the cylinder. This
principle produces the explosive motor of greatest efficiency.

The phenomena of the brilliant light and its accompanying heat at the
moment of explosion have been witnessed in the experiments of Dugald
Clerk in England, the illumination lasting throughout the stroke; but in
regard to time in a four-cycle engine, the incandescent state exists
only one-quarter of the running time. Thus the time interval, together
with the non-conductibility of the gases, makes the phenomena of a
high-temperature combustion within the comparatively cool walls of a
cylinder a practical possibility.

