
THE ADIABATIC LAW

This theory is equally applicable to the cooling of gases by abstraction
of heat or by cooling due to expansion by the motion of a piston. The
denominators of these heat fractions of expansion or contraction
represent the absolute zero of cold below the freezing-point of water,
and read -273° C. or -492.66° = -460.66° F. below zero; and these are
the starting-points of reference in computing the heat expansion in
gas-engines. According to Boyle's law, called the first law of gases,
there are but two characteristics of a gas and their variations to be
considered, _viz_., volume and pressure: while by the law of Gay Lussac,
called the second law of gases, a third is added, consisting of the
value of the absolute temperature, counting from absolute zero to the
temperatures at which the operations take place. This is the _Adiabatic_
law.

The ratio of the variation of the three conditions--volume, pressure,
and heat--from the absolute zero temperature has a certain rate, in
which the volume multiplied by the pressure and the product divided by
the absolute temperature equals the ratio of expansion for each degree.
If a volume of air is contained in a cylinder having a piston and fitted
with an indicator, the piston, if moved to and fro slowly, will
alternately compress and expand the air, and the indicator pencil will
trace a line or lines upon the card, which lines register the change of
pressure and volume occurring in the cylinder. If the piston is
perfectly free from leakage, and it be supposed that the temperature of
the air is kept quite constant, then the line so traced is called an
_Isothermal line_, and the pressure at any point when multiplied by the
volume is a constant, according to Boyle's law,

_pv_ = a constant.

If, however, the piston is moved very rapidly, the air will not remain
at constant temperature, but the temperature will increase because work
has been done upon the air, and the heat has no time to escape by
conduction. If no heat whatever is lost by any cause, the line will be
traced over and over again by the indicator pencil, the cooling by
expansion doing work precisely equalling the heating by compression.
This is the line of no transmission of heat, therefore known as
_Adiabatic_.

