The many recorded experiments made to solve the discrepancy between the
theoretical and the actual heat development and resulting pressures in
the cylinder of an explosive motor, to which much discussion has been
given as to the possibilities of dissociation and the increased specific
heat of the elements of combustion and non-combustion, as well, also, of
absorption and radiation of heat, have as yet furnished no satisfactory
conclusion as to what really takes place within the cylinder walls.
There seems to be very little known about dissociation, and somewhat
vague theories have been advanced to explain the phenomenon. The fact
is, nevertheless, apparent as shown in the production of water and other
producer gases by the use of steam in contact with highly incandescent
fuel. It is known that a maximum explosive mixture of pure gases, as
hydrogen and oxygen or carbonic oxide and oxygen, suffers a contraction
of one-third their volume by combustion to their compounds, steam or
carbonic acid. In the explosive mixtures in the cylinder of a motor,
however, the combining elements form so small a proportion of the
contents of the cylinder that the shrinkage of their volume amounts to
no more than 3 per cent. of the cylinder volume. This by no means
accounts for the great heat and pressure differences between the
theoretical and actual effects.


CONVERSION OF HEAT TO POWER

The utilization of heat in any heat-engine has long been a theme of
inquiry and experiment with scientists and engineers, for the purpose of
obtaining the best practical conditions and construction of heat-engines
that would represent the highest efficiency or the nearest approach to
the theoretical value of heat, as measured by empirical laws that have
been derived from experimental researches relating to its ultimate
volume. It is well known that the steam-engine returns only from 12 to
18 per cent. of the power due to the heat generated by the fuel, about
25 per cent. of the total heat being lost in the chimney, the only use
of which is to create a draught for the fire; the balance, some 60 per
cent., is lost in the exhaust and by radiation. The problem of utmost
utilization of force in steam has nearly reached its limit.

