Efficiencies are worked out through intricate formulas for a variety of
theoretical and unknown conditions of combustion in the cylinder: ratios
of clearance and cylinder volume, and the uncertain condition of the
products of combustion left from the last impulse and the wall
temperature. But they are of but little value, except as a mathematical
inquiry as to possibilities. The real commercial efficiency of a gas or
gasoline-engine depends upon the volume of gas or liquid at some
assigned cost, required per actual brake horse-power per hour, in which
an indicator card should show that the mechanical action of the valve
gear and ignition was as perfect as practicable, and that the ratio of
clearance, space, and cylinder volume gave a satisfactory terminal
pressure and compression: _i.e._, the difference between the power
figured from the indicator card and the brake power being the friction
loss of the engine.

In four-cycle motors of the compression type, the efficiencies are
greatly advanced by compression, producing a more complete infusion of
the mixture of gas or vapor and air, quicker firing, and far greater
pressure than is possible with the two-cycle type previously described.
In the practical operation of the gas-engine during the past twenty
years, the gas-consumption efficiencies per indicated horse-power have
gradually risen from 17 per cent. to a maximum of 40 per cent. of the
theoretical heat, and this has been done chiefly through a decreased
combustion chamber and increased compression--the compression having
gradually increased in practice from 30 lbs. per square inch to above
100; but there seems to be a limit to compression, as the efficiency
ratio decreases with greater increase in compression. It has been shown
that an ideal efficiency of 33 per cent. for 38 lbs., compression will
increase to 40 per cent. for 66 lbs., and 43 per cent. for 88 lbs.
compression. On the other hand, greater compression means greater
explosive pressure and greater strain on the engine structure, which
will probably retain in future practice the compression between the
limits of 40 and 90 lbs. except in super-compression engines intended
for high altitude work where compression pressures as high as 125 pounds
have been used.

