
LOSSES IN WALL COOLING

In an experimental investigation of the efficiency of a gas-engine under
variable piston speeds made in France, it was found that the useful
effect increases with the velocity of the piston--that is, with the rate
of expansion of the burning gases with mixtures of uniform volumes: so
that the variations of time of complete combustion at constant pressure,
and the variations due to speed, in a way compensate in their
efficiencies. The dilute mixture, being slow burning, will have its time
and pressure quickened by increasing the speed.

Careful trials give unmistakable evidence that the useful effect
increases with the velocity of the piston--that is, with the rate of
expansion of the burning gases. The time necessary for the explosion to
become complete and to attain its maximum pressure depends not only on
the composition of the mixture, but also upon the rate of expansion.
This has been verified in experiments with a high-speed motor, at speeds
from 500 to 2,000 revolutions per minute, or piston speeds of from 16 to
64 feet per second. The increased speed of combustion due to increased
piston speed is a matter of great importance to builders of gas-engines,
as well as to the users, as indicating the mechanical direction of
improvements to lessen the wearing strain due to high speed and to
lighten the vibrating parts with increased strength, in order that the
balancing of high-speed engines may be accomplished with the least
weight.

From many experiments made in Europe and in the United States, it has
been conclusively proved that excessive cylinder cooling by the
water-jacket results in a marked loss of efficiency. In a series of
experiments with a simplex engine in France, it was found that a saving
of 7 per cent. in gas consumption per brake horse-power was made by
raising the temperature of the jacket water from 141째 to 165째 F. A still
greater saving was made in a trial with an Otto engine by raising the
temperature of the jacket water from 61째 to 140째 F.--it being 9.5 per
cent. less gas per brake horse-power.

