It has been stated that volumes of similar cylinders increase as the
cube of their diameters, while the surface of their cold walls varies as
the square of their diameters; so that for large cylinders the ratio of
surface to volume is less than for small ones. This points to greater
economy in the larger engines. The study of many experiments goes to
prove that combustion takes place gradually in the gas-engine cylinder,
and that the rate of increase of pressure or rapidity of firing is
controlled by dilution and compression of the mixture, as well as by the
rate of expansion or piston speed. The rate of combustion also depends
on the size and shape of the explosion chamber, and is increased by the
mechanical agitation of the mixture during combustion, and still more by
the mode of firing.


VALUE OF INDICATOR CARDS

[Illustration: Fig. 13.--Otto Four-Cycle Card.]

To the uninitiated, indicator cards are considerable of a mystery; to
those capable of reading them they form an index relative to the action
of any engine. An indicator card, such as shown at Fig. 13, is merely a
graphical representation of the various pressures existing in the
cylinder for different positions of the piston. The length is to some
scale that represents the stroke of the piston. During the intake
stroke, the pressure falls below the atmospheric line. During
compression, the curve gradually becomes higher owing to increasing
pressure as the volume is reduced. After ignition the pressure line
moves upward almost straight, then as the piston goes down on the
explosion stroke, the pressure falls gradually to the point of exhaust
valve, opening when the sudden release of the imprisoned gas causes a
reduction in pressure to nearly atmospheric. An indicator card, or a
series of them, will always show by its lines the normal or defective
condition of the inlet valve and passages; the actual line of
compression; the firing moment; the pressure of explosion; the velocity
of combustion; the normal or defective line of expansion, as measured by
the adiabatic curve, and the normal or defective operation of the
exhaust valve, exhaust passages, and exhaust pipe. In fact, all the
cycles of an explosive motor may be made a practical study from a close
investigation of the lines of an indicator card.

