[Illustration: Fig. 14.--Diesel Motor Card.]

A most unique card is that of the Diesel motor (Fig. 14), which involves
a distinct principle in the design and operation of internal-combustion
motors, in that instead of taking a mixed charge for instantaneous
explosion, its charge primarily is of air and its compression to a
pressure at which a temperature is attained above the igniting point of
the fuel, then injecting the fuel under a still higher pressure by which
spontaneous combustion takes place gradually with increasing volume over
the compression for part of the stroke or until the fuel charge is
consumed. The motor thus operating between the pressures of 500 and 35
lbs. per square inch, with a clearance of about 7 per cent., has given
an efficiency of 36 per cent. of the total heat value of kerosene oil.


COMPRESSION IN EXPLOSIVE MOTORS

That the compression in a gas, gasoline, or oil-engine has a direct
relation to the power obtained, has been long known to experienced
builders, having been suggested by M. Beau de Rocha, in 1862, and
afterward brought into practical use in the four-cycle or Otto type
about 1880. The degree of compression has had a growth from zero, in the
early engines, to the highest available due to the varying ignition
temperatures of the different gases and vapors used for explosive fuel,
in order to avoid premature explosion from the heat of compression. Much
of the increased power for equal-cylinder capacity is due to compression
of the charge from the fact that the most powerful explosion of gases,
or of any form of explosive material, takes place when the particles are
in the closest contact or cohesion with one another, less energy in this
form being consumed by the ingredients themselves to bring about their
chemical combination, and consequently more energy is given out in
useful or available work. This is best shown by the ignition of
gunpowder, which, when ignited in the open air, burns rapidly, but
without explosion, an explosion only taking place if the powder be
confined or compressed into a small space.

