[Illustration: Fig. 15.--Diagram of Heat in the Gas Engine Cylinder.]

In a gas or gasoline-motor with a small clearance or compression
space--with high compression--the surface with which the burning
gases come into contact is much smaller in comparison with the
compression space in a low-compression motor. Another advantage of a
high-compression motor is that on account of the smaller clearance
of combustion space less cooling water is required than with a
low-compression motor, as the temperature, and consequently the
pressure, falls more rapidly. The loss of heat through the water-jacket
is thus less in the case of a high-compression than in that of a
low-compression motor. In the non-compression type of motor the best
results were obtained with a charge of 16 to 18 parts of gas and 100
parts of air, while in the compression type the best results are
obtained with an explosive mixture of 7 to 10 parts of gas and 100 parts
of air, thus showing that by the utilization of compression a weaker
charge with a greater thermal efficiency is permissible.

It has been found that the explosive pressure resulting from the
ignition of the charge of gas or gasoline-vapor and air in the
gas-engine cylinder is about 4-1/2 times the pressure prior to ignition.
The difficulty about getting high compression is that if the pressure is
too high the charge is likely to ignite prematurely, as compression
always results in increased temperature. The cylinder may become too
hot, a deposit of carbon, a projecting electrode or plug body in the
cylinder may become incandescent and ignite the charge which has been
excessively heated by the high compression and mixture of the hot gases
of the previous explosion.


FACTORS LIMITING COMPRESSION

With gasoline-vapor and air the compression should not be raised above
about 90 to 95 pounds to the square inch, many manufacturers not going
above 65 or 70 pounds. For natural gas the compression pressure may
easily be raised to from 85 to 100 pounds per square inch. For gases of
low calorific value, such as blast-furnace or producer-gas, the
compression may be increased to from 140 to 190 pounds. In fact the
ability to raise the compression to a high point with these gases is one
of the principal reasons for their successful adoption for gas-engine
use. In kerosene injection engines the compression of 250 pounds per
square inch has been used with marked economy. Many troubles in regard
to loss of power and increase of fuel have occurred and will no doubt
continue, owing to the wear of valves, piston, and cylinder, which
produces a loss in compression and explosive pressure and a waste of
fuel by leakage. Faulty adjustment of valve movement is also a cause of
loss of power; which may be from tardy closing of the inlet-valve or a
too early opening of the exhaust-valve.

