[Illustration: Fig. 18.--Spherical Combustion Chamber.]

[Illustration: Fig. 19.--Enlarged Combustion Chamber.]

The spherical form cannot continue during the stroke for mechanical
reasons; therefore some proportion of piston stroke of cylinder volume
must be found to correspond with a spherical form of the combustion
chamber to produce the least loss of heat through the walls during the
combustion and expansion part of the stroke. This idea is illustrated in
Figs. 18 and 19, showing how the relative volumes of cylinder stroke and
combustion chamber may be varied to suit the requirements due to the
quality of the elements of combustion.

Although the concave piston-head shows economy in regard to the relation
of the clearance volume to the wall area at the moment of explosive
combustion, it may be clearly seen that its concavity increases its
surface area and its capacity for absorbing heat, for which there is no
provision for cooling the piston, save its contact with the walls of the
cylinder and the slight air cooling of its back by its reciprocal
motion. For this reason the concave piston-head has not been generally
adopted and the concave cylinder-head, as shown in Fig. 19, with a
flat piston-head is the latest and best practice in airplane engine
construction.

[Illustration: Fig. 20.--Mercedes Aviation Engine Cylinder Section
Showing Approximately Spherical Combustion Chamber and Concave Piston
Top.]

The practical application of the principle just outlined to one of the
most efficient airplane motors ever designed, the Mercedes, is clearly
outlined at Fig. 20.


HEAT LOSSES TO COOLING WATER

The mean temperature of the wall surface of the combustion chamber and
cylinder, as indicated by the temperatures of the circulating water, has
been found to be an important item in the economy of the gas-engine.
Dugald Clerk, in England, a high authority in practical work with the
gas-engine, found that 10 per cent. of the gas for a stated amount of
power was saved by using water at a temperature in which the ejected
water from the cylinder-jacket was near the boiling-point, and ventures
the opinion that a still higher temperature for the circulating water
may be used as a source of economy. This could be made practical in the
case of aviation engines by adjusting the air-cooling surface of the
radiator so as to maintain the inlet water at just below the boiling
point, and by the rapid circulation induced by the pump pressure, to
return the water from the cylinder-jacket a few degrees above the
boiling point. The thermal displacement systems of cooling employed in
automobiles are working under more favorable temperature conditions than
those engines in which cooling is more energetic.

