The fly-wheel is a heavy member attached to the crank-shaft of an
automobile engine which has energy stored in its rim as the member
revolves, and the momentum of this revolving mass tends to equalize the
intermittent pushes on the piston head produced by the explosion of the
gas in the cylinder. In aviation engines, the weight of the propeller or
that of rotating cylinders themselves performs the duty of a fly-wheel,
so no separate member is needed. If some explosive is placed in the
chamber formed by the piston and closed end of the cylinder and
exploded, the piston would be the only part that would yield to the
pressure which would produce a downward movement. As this is forced down
the crank-shaft is turned by the connecting rod, and as this part is
hinged at both ends it is free to oscillate as the crank turns, and thus
the piston may slide back and forth while the crank-shaft is rotating or
describing a curvilinear path.

[Illustration: Fig. 21.--Side Sectional View of Typical Airplane Engine,
Showing Parts and Their Relation to Each Other. This Engine is an
Aeromarine Design and Utilizes a Distinctive Concentric Valve
Construction.]

In addition to the simple elements described it is evident that a
gasoline engine must have other parts. The most important of these are
the valves, of which there are generally two to each cylinder. One
closes the passage connecting to the gas supply and opens during one
stroke of the piston in order to let the explosive gas into the
combustion chamber. The other member, or exhaust valve, serves as a
cover for the opening through which the burned gases can leave the
cylinder after their work is done. The spark plug is a simple device
which may be compared to the fuse or percussion cap of the cannon. It
permits one to produce an electric spark in the cylinder when the piston
is at the best point to utilize the pressure which obtains when the
compressed gas is fired. The valves are open one at a time, the inlet
valve being lifted from its seat while the cylinder is filling and the
exhaust valve is opened when the cylinder is being cleared. They are
normally kept seated by means of compression springs. In the simple
motor shown at Fig. 5, the exhaust valve is operated by means of a
pivoted bell crank rocked by a cam which turns at half the speed of the
crank-shaft. The inlet valve operates automatically, as will be
explained in proper sequence.

