In order to obtain a perfectly tight combustion chamber, both intake and
exhaust valves are closed before the gas is ignited, because all of the
pressure produced by the exploding gas is to be directed against the top
of the movable piston. When the piston reaches the bottom of its power
stroke, the exhaust valve is lifted by means of the bell crank which is
rocked because of the point or lift on the cam. The cam-shaft is driven
by positive gearing and revolves at half the engine speed. The exhaust
valve remains open during the whole of the return stroke of the piston,
and as this member moves toward the closed end of the cylinder it
forces out burned gases ahead of it, through the passage controlled by
the exhaust valve. The cam-shaft is revolved at half the engine speed
because the exhaust valve is raised from its seat during only one stroke
out of four, or only once every two revolutions. Obviously, if the cam
was turned at the same speed as the crank-shaft it would remain open
once every revolution, whereas the burned gases are expelled from the
individual cylinders only once in two turns of the crank-shaft.


WHY MULTIPLE CYLINDER FORMS ARE BEST

Owing to the vibration which obtains from the heavy explosion in the
large single-cylinder engines used for stationary power other forms were
evolved in which the cylinder was smaller and power obtained by running
the engine faster, but these are suitable only for very low powers.

When a single-cylinder engine is employed a very heavy fly-wheel is
needed to carry the moving parts through idle strokes necessary to
obtain a power impulse. For this reason automobile and aircraft
designers must use more than one cylinder, and the tendency is to
produce power by frequently occurring light impulses rather than
by a smaller number of explosions having greater force. When a
single-cylinder motor is employed the construction is heavier than is
needed with a multiple-cylinder form. Using two or more cylinders
conduces to steady power generation and a lessening of vibration. Most
modern motor cars employ four-cylinder engines because a power impulse
may be secured twice every revolution of the crank-shaft, or a total of
four power strokes during two revolutions. The parts are so arranged
that while the charge of gas in one cylinder is exploding, those which
come next in firing order are compressing, discharging the inert gases
and drawing in a fresh charge respectively. When the power stroke is
completed in one cylinder, the piston in that member in which a charge
of gas has just been compressed has reached the top of its stroke and
when the gas is exploded the piston is reciprocated and keeps the
crank-shaft turning. When a multiple-cylinder engine is used the
fly-wheel can be made much lighter than that of the simpler form and
eliminated altogether in some designs. In fact, many modern
multiple-cylinder engines developing 300 horse-power weigh less than the
early single- and double-cylinder forms which developed but one-tenth or
one-twentieth that amount of energy.

