
DESCRIBING SEQUENCE OF OPERATIONS

Referring to Fig. 22, A, the sequence of operation in a single-cylinder
motor can be easily understood. Assuming that the crank-shaft is turning
in the direction of the arrow, it will be seen that the intake stroke
comes first, then the compression, which is followed by the power
impulse, and lastly the exhaust stroke. If two cylinders are used, it is
possible to balance the explosions in such a way that one will occur
each revolution. This is true with either one of two forms of four-cycle
motors. At B, a two-cylinder vertical engine using a crank-shaft in
which the crank-pins are on the same plane is shown. The two pistons
move up and down simultaneously. Referring to the diagram describing the
strokes, and assuming that the outer circle represents the cycle of
operations in one cylinder while the inner circle represents the
sequence of events in the other cylinder, while cylinder No. 1 is taking
in a fresh charge of gas, cylinder No. 2 is exploding. When cylinder No.
1 is compressing, cylinder No. 2 is exhausting. During the time that the
charge in cylinder No. 1 is exploded, cylinder No. 2 is being filled
with fresh gas. While the exhaust gases are being discharged from
cylinder No. 1, cylinder No. 2 is compressing the gas previously taken.

[Illustration: Fig. 22.--Diagrams Illustrating Sequence of Cycles in
One- and Two-Cylinder Engines Showing More Uniform Turning Effort on
Crank-Shaft with Two-Cylinder Motors.]

The same condition obtains when the crank-pins are arranged at one
hundred and eighty degrees and the cylinders are opposed, as shown at C.
The reason that the two-cylinder opposed motor is more popular than
that having two vertical cylinders is that it is difficult to balance
the construction shown at B, so that the vibration will not be
excessive. The two-cylinder opposed motor has much less vibration than
the other form, and as the explosions occur evenly and the motor is a
simple one to construct, it has been very popular in the past on light
cars and has received limited application on some early, light
airplanes.

