To demonstrate very clearly the advantages of multiple-cylinder engines
the diagrams at Fig. 23 have been prepared. At A, a three-cylinder
motor, having crank-pins at one hundred and twenty degrees, which means
that they are spaced at thirds of the circle, we have a form of
construction that gives a more even turning than that possible with a
two-cylinder engine. Instead of one explosion per revolution of the
crank-shaft, one will obtain three explosions in two revolutions. The
manner in which the explosion strokes occur and the manner they overlap
strokes in the other cylinder is shown at A. Assuming that the cylinders
fire in the following order, first No. 1, then No. 2, and last No. 3, we
will see that while cylinder No. 1, represented by the outer circle, is
on the power stroke, cylinder No. 3 has completed the last two-thirds of
its exhaust stroke and has started on its intake stroke. Cylinder No. 2,
represented by the middle circle, during this same period has completed
its intake stroke and two-thirds of its compression stroke. A study of
the diagram will show that there is an appreciable lapse of time between
each explosion.

Three-cylinder engines are not used on aircraft at the present time,
though Bleriot's flight across the British Channel was made with a
three-cylinder Anzani motor. It was not a conventional form, however.
The three-cylinder engine is practically obsolete at this time for any
purpose except "penguins" or school machines that are incapable of
flight and which are used in some French training schools for aviators.

[Illustration: Fig. 23.--Diagrams Demonstrating Clearly Advantages which
Obtain when Multiple-Cylinder Motors are Used as Power Plants.]


FOUR- AND SIX-CYLINDER ENGINES

In the four-cylinder engine operation which is shown at Fig. 23, B, it
will be seen that the power strokes follow each other without loss of
time, and one cylinder begins to fire and the piston moves down just as
soon as the member ahead of it has completed its power stroke. In a
four-cylinder motor, the crank-pins are placed at one hundred and eighty
degrees, or on the halves of the crank circle. The crank-pins for
cylinders No. 1 and No. 4 are on the same plane, while those for
cylinders No. 2 and No. 3 also move in unison. The diagram describing
sequence of operations in each cylinder is based on a firing order of
one, two, four, three. The outer circle, as in previous instances,
represents the cycle of operations in cylinder one. The next one toward
the center, cylinder No. 2, the third circle represents the sequence of
events in cylinder No. 3, while the inner circle outlines the strokes in
cylinder four. The various cylinders are working as follows:

