1.           2.           3.           4.

Explosion    Compression  Exhaust      Intake
Exhaust      Explosion    Intake       Compression
Intake       Exhaust      Compression  Explosion
Compression  Intake       Explosion    Exhaust

It will be obvious that regardless of the method of construction, or the
number of cylinders employed, exactly the same number of parts must be
used in each cylinder assembly and one can conveniently compare any
multiple-cylinder power plant as a series of single-cylinder engines
joined one behind the other and so coupled that one will deliver power
and produce useful energy at the crank-shaft where the other leaves off.
The same fundamental laws governing the action of a single cylinder
obtain when a number are employed, and the sequence of operation is the
same in all members, except that the necessary functions take place at
different times. If, for instance, all the cylinders of a four-cylinder
motor were fired at the same time, one would obtain the same effect as
though a one-piston engine was used, which had a piston displacement
equal to that of the four smaller members. As is the case with a
single-cylinder engine, the motor would be out of correct mechanical
balance because all the connecting rods would be placed on crank-pins
that lie in the same plane. A very large fly-wheel would be necessary to
carry the piston through the idle strokes, and large balance weights
would be fitted to the crank-shaft in an effort to compensate for the
weight of the four pistons, and thus reduce vibratory stresses which
obtain when parts are not in correct balance.

There would be no advantage gained by using four cylinders in this
manner, and there would be more loss of heat and more power consumed in
friction than in a one-piston motor of the same capacity. This is the
reason that when four cylinders are used the arrangement of crank-pins
is always as shown at Fig. 23, B--i.e., two pistons are up, while the
other two are at the bottom of the stroke. With this construction, we
have seen that it is possible to string out the explosions so that there
will always be one cylinder applying power to the crank-shaft. The
explosions are spaced equally. The parts are in correct mechanical
balance because two pistons are on the upstroke while the other two are
descending. Care is taken to have one set of moving members weigh
exactly the same as the other. With a four-cylinder engine one has
correct balance and continuous application of energy. This insures a
smoother running motor which has greater efficiency than the simpler
one-, two-, and three-cylinder forms previously described. Eliminating
the stresses which would obtain if we had an unbalanced mechanism and
irregular power application makes for longer life. Obviously a large
number of relatively light explosions will produce less wear and strain
than would a lesser number of powerful ones. As the parts can be built
lighter if the explosions are not heavy, the engine can be operated at
higher rotative speeds than when large and cumbersome members are
utilized. Four-cylinder engines intended for aviation work have been
built according to the designs shown at Fig. 24, but these forms are
unconventional and seldom if ever used.

