[Illustration: Fig. 24.--Showing Three Possible Though Unconventional
Arrangements of Four-Cylinder Engines.]

The six-cylinder type of motor, the action of which is shown at Fig. 23,
C, is superior to the four-cylinder, inasmuch as the power strokes
overlap, and instead of having two explosions each revolution we have
three explosions. The conventional crank-shaft arrangement in a
six-cylinder engine is just the same as though one used two
three-cylinder shafts fastened together, so pistons 1 and 6 are on the
same plane as are pistons 2 and 5. Pistons 3 and 4 also travel together.
With the cranks arranged as outlined at Fig. 23, C, the firing order is
one, five, three, six, two, four. The manner in which the power strokes
overlap is clearly shown in the diagram. An interesting comparison is
also made in the diagrams at Fig. 25 and in the upper corner of Fig. 23,
C.

[Illustration: Fig. 25.--Diagrams Outlining Advantages of Multiple
Cylinder Motors, and Why They Deliver Power More Evenly Than Single
Cylinder Types.]

A rectangle is divided into four columns; each of these corresponds to
one hundred and eighty degrees, or half a revolution. Thus the first
revolution of the crank-shaft is represented by the first two columns,
while the second revolution is represented by the last two. Taking the
portion of the diagram which shows the power impulse in a one-cylinder
engine, we see that during the first revolution there has been no power
impulse. During the first half of the second revolution, however, an
explosion takes place and a power impulse is obtained. The last portion
of the second revolution is devoted to exhausting the burned gases, so
that there are three idle strokes and but one power stroke. The effect
when two cylinders are employed is shown immediately below.

[Illustration: Fig. 26.--Diagrams Showing Duration of Events for a
Four-Stroke Cycle, Six-Cylinder Engine.]

Here we have one explosion during the first half of the first revolution
in one cylinder and another during the first half of the second
revolution in the other cylinder. With a four-cylinder engine there is
an explosion each half revolution, while in a six-cylinder engine there
is one and one-half explosions during each half revolution. When six
cylinders are used there is no lapse of time between power impulses, as
these overlap and a continuous and smooth-turning movement is imparted
to the crank shaft. The diagram shown at Fig. 26, prepared by E. P.
Pulley, can be studied to advantage in securing an idea of the
coordination of effort that takes place in an engine of the six-cylinder
type.

