
ACTUAL DURATION OF DIFFERENT STROKES

[Illustration: Fig. 27.--Diagram Showing Actual Duration of Different
Strokes in Degrees.]

In the diagrams previously presented the writer has assumed, for the
sake of simplicity, that each stroke takes place during half of one
revolution of the crank-shaft, which corresponds to a crank-pin travel
of one hundred and eighty degrees. The actual duration of these strokes
is somewhat different. For example, the inlet stroke is usually a trifle
more than a half revolution, and the exhaust is always considerably
more. The diagram showing the comparative duration of the strokes is
shown at Fig. 27. The inlet valve opens ten degrees after the piston
starts to go down and remains open thirty degrees after the piston has
reached the bottom of its stroke. This means that the suction stroke
corresponds to a crank-pin travel of two hundred degrees, while the
compression stroke is measured by a movement of but one hundred and
fifty degrees. It is common practice to open the exhaust valve before
the piston reaches the end of the power stroke so that the actual
duration of the power stroke is about one hundred and forty degrees,
while the exhaust stroke corresponds to a crank-pin travel of two
hundred and twenty-five degrees. In this diagram, which represents
proper time for the valves to open and close, the dimensions in inches
given are measured on the fly-wheel and apply only to a certain
automobile motor. If the fly-wheel were smaller ten degrees would take
up less than the dimensions given, while if the fly-wheel was larger a
greater space on its circumference would represent the same crank-pin
travel. Aviation engines are timed by using a timing disc attached to
the crank-shaft as they are not provided with fly-wheels. Obviously, the
distance measured in inches will depend upon the diameter of the disc,
though the number of degrees interval would not change.

[Illustration: Fig. 28.--Another Diagram to Facilitate Understanding
Sequence of Functions in Six-Cylinder Engine.]

