
EIGHT- AND TWELVE-CYLINDER V ENGINES

Those who have followed the development of the gasoline engine will
recall the arguments that were made when the six-cylinder motor was
introduced at a time that the four-cylinder type was considered
standard. The arrival of the eight-cylinder has created similar futile
discussion of its practicability as this is so clearly established as to
be accepted without question. It has been a standard power plant for
aeroplanes for many years, early exponents having been the Antoinette,
the Woolsley, the Renault, the E. N. V. in Europe and the Curtiss in the
United States.

[Illustration: Fig. 29.--Types of Eight-Cylinder Engines Showing the
Advantage of the V Method of Cylinder Placing.]

The reason the V type shown at Fig. 29, A is favored is that the
"all-in-line form" which is shown at Fig. 29, B is not practical for
aircraft because of its length. Compared to the standard four-cylinder
engine it is nearly twice as long and it required a much stronger and
longer crank-shaft. It will be evident that it could not be located to
advantage in the airplane fuselage. These undesirable factors are
eliminated in the V type eight-cylinder motor, as it consists of two
blocks of four cylinders each, so arranged that one set or block is at
an angle of forty-five degrees from the vertical center line of the
motor, or at an angle of ninety degrees with the other set. This
arrangement of cylinders produces a motor that is no longer than a
four-cylinder engine of half the power would be.

[Illustration: Fig. 30.--Curves Showing Torque of Various Engine Types
Demonstrate Graphically Marked Advantage of the Eight-Cylinder Type.]

Apparently there is considerable misconception as to the advantage of
the two extra cylinders of the eight as compared with the six-cylinder.
It should be borne in mind that the multiplication in the number of
cylinders noticed since the early days of automobile development has not
been for solely increasing the power of the engine, but to secure a more
even turning movement, greater flexibility and to eliminate destructive
vibration. The ideal internal combustion motor, is the one having the
most uniform turning movement with the least mechanical friction loss.
Study of the torque outlines or plotted graphics shown at Figs. 25 and
30 will show how multiplication of cylinders will produce steady power
delivery due to overlapping impulses. The most practical form would be
that which more nearly conforms to the steady running produced by a
steam turbine or electric motor. The advocates of the eight-cylinder
engine bring up the item of uniform torque as one of the most important
advantages of the eight-cylinder design. A number of torque diagrams are
shown at Fig. 30. While these appear to be deeply technical, they may be
very easily followed when their purpose is explained. At the top is
shown the torque diagram of a single-cylinder motor of the four-cycle
type. The high point in the line represents the period of greatest
torque or power generation, and it will be evident that this occurs
early in the first revolution of the crank-shaft. Below this diagram is
shown a similar curve except that it is produced by a four-cylinder
engine. Inspection will show that the turning-moment is much more
uniform than in the single cylinder; similarly, the six-cylinder
diagram is an improvement over the four, and the eight-cylinder diagram
is an improvement over the six-cylinder.

