[Illustration: Fig. 31.--Diagrams Showing How Increasing Number of
Cylinders Makes for More Uniform Power Application.]

The reason that practically continuous torque is obtained in an
eight-cylinder engine is that one cylinder fires every ninety degrees of
crank-shaft rotation, and as each impulse lasts nearly seventy-five per
cent. of the stroke, one can easily appreciate that an engine that will
give four explosions per revolution of the crank-shaft will run more
uniformly than one that gives but three explosions per revolution, as
the six-cylinder does, and will be twice as smooth running as a
four-cylinder, in which but two explosions occur per revolution of the
crank-shaft. The comparison is so clearly shown in graphical diagrams
and in Fig. 31 that further description is unnecessary.

Any eight-cylinder engine may be considered a "twin-four,"
twelve-cylinder engines may be considered "twin sixes."

[Illustration: Fig. 32.--How the Angle Between the Cylinders of an
Eight- and Twelve-Cylinder V Motor Varies.]

The only points in which an eight-cylinder motor differs from a
four-cylinder is in the arrangement of the connecting rod, as in many
designs it is necessary to have two rods working from the same
crank-pin. This difficulty is easily overcome in some designs by
staggering the cylinders and having the two connecting rod big ends of
conventional form side by side on a common crank-pin. In other designs
one rod is a forked form and works on the outside of a rod of the
regular pattern. Still another method is to have a boss just above the
main bearing on one connecting rod to which the lower portion of the
connecting rod in the opposite cylinder is hinged. As the eight-cylinder
engine may actually be made lighter than the six-cylinder of equal
power, it is possible to use smaller reciprocating parts, such as
pistons, connecting rods and valve gear, and obtain higher engine speed
with practically no vibration. The firing order in nearly every case is
the same as in a four-cylinder except that the explosions occur
alternately in each set of cylinders. The firing order of an
eight-cylinder motor is apt to be confusing to the motorist,
especially if one considers that there are eight possible sequences. The
majority of engineers favor the alternate firing from side to side.
Firing orders will be considered in proper sequence.

