[Illustration: Fig. 39.--Unconventional Six-Cylinder Aircraft Motor of
Masson Design.]

In the form shown at Fig. 39 six cylinders are used, all being placed
above the crank-shaft center line. This engine is also of the air-cooled
form and develops 50 H. P. and weighs 105 kilograms, or 231 lbs. The
carburetor is connected to a manifold casting attached to the engine
base from which the induction pipes radiate to the various cylinders.
The propeller design and size relative to the engine is clearly shown in
this view. While flights have been made with both of the engines
described, this method of construction is not generally followed and has
been almost entirely displaced abroad by the revolving motors or by the
more conventional eight-cylinder V engines. Both of the engines shown
were designed about eight years ago and would be entirely too small and
weak for use in modern airplanes intended for active duty.


ROTARY ENGINES

[Illustration: Fig. 40.--The Gnome Fourteen-Cylinder Revolving Motor.]

Rotary engines such as shown at Fig. 40 are generally associated with
the idea of light construction and it is rather an interesting point
that is often overlooked in connection with the application of this idea
to flight motors, that the reason why rotary engines are popularly
supposed to be lighter than the others is because they form their own
fly-wheel, yet on aeroplanes, engines are seldom fitted with a fly-wheel
at all. As a matter of fact the Gnome engine is not so light because it
is a rotary motor, and it is a rotary motor because the design that has
been adopted as that most conducive to lightness is also most suited to
an engine working in this way. The cylinders could be fixed and
crank-shaft revolve without increasing the weight to any extent. There
are two prime factors governing the lightness of an engine, one being
the initial design, and the other the quality of the materials employed.
The consideration of reducing weight by cutting away metal is a
subsidiary method that ought not to play a part in standard practice,
however useful it may be in special cases. In the Gnome rotary engine
the lightness is entirely due to the initial design and to the materials
employed in manufacture. Thus, in the first case, the engine is a radial
engine, and has its seven or nine cylinders spaced equally around a
crank-chamber that is no wider or rather longer than would be required
for any one of the cylinders. This shortening of the crank-chamber not
only effects a considerable saving of weight on its own account, but
there is a corresponding saving in the shafts and other members, the
dimensions of which are governed by the size of the crank-chamber. With
regard to materials, nothing but steel is used throughout, and most of
the metal is forged chrome nickel steel. The beautifully steady running
of the engine is largely due to the fact that there are literally no
reciprocating parts in the absolute sense, the apparent reciprocation
between the pistons and cylinders being solely a relative reciprocation
since both travel in circular paths, that of the pistons, however, being
electric by one-half of the stroke length to that of the cylinder.

