While the Gnome engine has many advantages, on the other hand the head
resistance offered by a motor of this type is considerable; there is a
large waste of lubricating oil due to the centrifugal force which tends
to throw the oil away from the cylinders; the gyroscopic effect of the
rotary motor is detrimental to the best working of the aeroplane, and
moreover it requires about seven per cent. of the total power developed
by the motor to drive the revolving cylinders around the shaft. Of
necessity, the compression of this type of motor is rather low, and an
additional disadvantage manifests itself in the fact that there is as
yet no satisfactory way of muffling the rotary type of motor. The modern
Gnome engine has been widely copied in various European countries, but
its design was originated in America, the early Adams-Farwell engine
being the pioneer form. It has been made in seven- and nine-cylinder
types and forms of double these numbers. The engine illustrated at Fig.
40 is a fourteen-cylinder form. The simple engines have an odd number of
cylinders in order to secure evenly spaced explosions. In the
seven-cylinder, the impulses come 102.8째 apart. In the nine-cylinder
form, the power strokes are spaced 80째 apart. The fourteen-cylinder
engine is virtually two seven-cylinder types mounted together, the
cranks being just the same as in a double cylinder opposed motor, the
explosions coming 51.4째 apart; while in the eighteen-cylinder model the
power impulses come every 40째 cylinder travel. Other rotary motors have
been devised, such as the Le Rhone and the Clerget in France and several
German copies of these various types. The mechanical features of these
motors will be fully considered later.




CHAPTER V

Properties of Liquid Fuels--Distillates of Crude Petroleum--
Principles of Carburetion Outlined--Air Needed to Burn Gasoline
--What a Carburetor Should Do--Liquid Fuel Storage and Supply--
Vacuum Fuel Feed--Early Vaporizer Forms--Development of Float
Feed Carburetor--Maybach's Early Design--Concentric Float and
Jet Type--Schebler Carburetor--Claudel Carburetor--Stewart
Metering Pin Type--Multiple Nozzle Vaporizers--Two-Stage
Carburetor--Master Multiple Jet Type--Compound Nozzle Zenith
Carburetor--Utility of Gasoline Strainers--Intake Manifold
Design and Construction--Compensating for Various Atmospheric
Conditions--How High Altitude Affects Power--The Diesel System--
Notes on Carburetor Installation--Notes on Carburetor
Adjustment.

