
There is no appliance that has more material value upon the efficiency
of the internal combustion motor than the carburetor or vaporizer which
supplies the explosive gas to the cylinders. It is only in recent years
that engineers have realized the importance of using carburetors that
are efficient and that are so strongly and simply made that there will
be little liability of derangement. As the power obtained from the
gas-engine depends upon the combustion of fuel in the cylinders, it is
evident that if the gas supplied does not have the proper proportions of
elements to insure rapid combustion the efficiency of the engine will be
low. When a gas engine is used as a stationary installation it is
possible to use ordinary illuminating or natural gas for fuel, but when
this prime mover is applied to automobiles or airplanes it is evident
that considerable difficulty would be experienced in carrying enough
compressed coal gas to supply the engine for even a very short trip.
Fortunately, the development of the internal-combustion motor was not
delayed by the lack of suitable fuel.

Engineers were familiar with the properties of certain liquids which
gave off vapors that could be mixed with air to form an explosive gas
which burned very well in the engine cylinders. A very small quantity of
such liquids would suffice for a very satisfactory period of operation.
The problem to be solved before these liquids could be applied in a
practical manner was to evolve suitable apparatus for vaporizing them
without waste. Among the liquids that can be combined with air and
burned, gasoline is the most volatile and is the fuel utilized by
internal-combustion engines.

The widely increasing scope of usefulness of the internal-combustion
motor has made it imperative that other fuels be applied in some
instances because the supply of gasoline may in time become inadequate
to supply the demand. In fact, abroad this fuel sells for fifty to two
hundred per cent. more than it does in America because most of the
gasoline used must be imported from this country or Russia. Because of
this foreign engineers have experimented widely with other substances,
such as alcohol, benzol, and kerosene, but more to determine if they can
be used to advantage in motor cars than in airplane engines.

