
PRINCIPLES OF CARBURETION OUTLINED

The process of carburetion is combining the volatile vapors which
evaporate from the hydrocarbon liquids with certain proportions of air
to form an inflammable gas. The quantities of air needed vary with
different liquids and some mixtures burn quicker than do other
combinations of air and vapor. Combustion is simply burning and it may
be rapid, moderate or slow. Mixtures of gasoline and air burn quickly,
in fact the combustion is so rapid that it is almost instantaneous and
we obtain what is commonly termed an "explosion." Therefore the
explosion of gas in the automobile engine cylinder which produces the
power is really a combination of chemical elements which produce heat
and an increase in the volume of the gas because of the increase in
temperature.

If the gasoline mixture is not properly proportioned the rate of
burning will vary, and if the mixture is either too rich or too weak the
power of the explosion is reduced and the amount of power applied to the
piston is decreased proportionately. In determining the proper
proportions of gasoline and air, one must take the chemical composition
of gasoline into account. The ordinary liquid used for fuel is said to
contain about eight-four per cent. carbon and sixteen per cent.
hydrogen. Air is composed of oxygen and nitrogen and the former has a
great affinity, or combining power, with the two constituents of
hydrocarbon liquids. Therefore, what we call an explosion is merely an
indication that oxygen in the air has combined with the carbon and
hydrogen of the gasoline.


AIR NEEDED TO BURN GASOLINE

In figuring the proper volume of air to mix with a given quantity of
fuel, one takes into account the fact that one pound of hydrogen
requires eight pounds of oxygen to burn it, and one pound of carbon
needs two and one-third pounds of oxygen to insure its combustion. Air
is composed of one part of oxygen to three and one-half portions of
nitrogen by weight. Therefore for each pound of oxygen one needs to burn
hydrogen or carbon four and one-half pounds of air must be allowed. To
insure combustion of one pound of gasoline which is composed of hydrogen
and carbon we must furnish about ten pounds of air to burn the carbon
and about six pounds of air to insure combustion of hydrogen, the other
component of gasoline. This means that to burn one pound of gasoline one
must provide about sixteen pounds of air.

