While it is apparent that the chief function of a carbureting device is
to mix hydrocarbon vapors with air to secure mixtures that will burn,
there are a number of factors which must be considered before describing
the principles of vaporizing devices. Almost any device which permits a
current of air to pass over or through a volatile liquid will produce a
gas which will explode when compressed and ignited in the motor
cylinder. Modern carburetors are not only called upon to supply certain
quantities of gas, but these must deliver a mixture to the cylinders
that is accurately proportioned and which will be of proper composition
at all engine speeds.

[Illustration: Fig. 41.--How Gravity Feed Fuel Tank May Be Mounted Back
of Engine and Secure Short Fuel Line.]

Flexible control of the engine is sought by varying the engine speed by
regulating the supply of gas to the cylinders. The power plant should
run from its lowest to its highest speed without any irregularity in
torque, i.e., the acceleration should be gradual rather than spasmodic.
As the degree of compression will vary in value with the amount of
throttle opening, the conditions necessary to obtain maximum power
differ with varying engine speeds. When the throttle is barely opened
the engine speed is low and the gas must be richer in fuel than when the
throttle is wide open and the engine speed high.

When an engine is turning over slowly the compression has low value and
the conditions are not so favorable to rapid combustion as when the
compression is high. At high engine speeds the gas velocity through the
intake piping is higher than at low speeds, and regular engine action is
not so apt to be disturbed by condensation of liquid fuel in the
manifold due to excessively rich mixture or a superabundance of liquid
in the stream of carbureted air.


LIQUID FUEL STORAGE AND SUPPLY

The problem of gasoline storage and method of supplying the carburetor
is one that is determined solely by design of the airplane. While the
object of designers should be to supply the fuel to the carburetor by as
simple means as possible the fuel supply system of some airplanes is
quite complex. The first point to consider is the location of the
gasoline tank. This depends upon the amount of fuel needed and the space
available in the fuselage.

