A very simple and compact fuel supply system is shown at Fig. 41. In
this instance the fuel container is placed immediately back of the
engine cylinder. The carburetor which is carried as indicated is joined
to the tank by a short piece of copper or flexible rubber tubing. This
is the simplest possible form of fuel supply system and one used on a
number of excellent airplanes.

As the sizes of engines increase and the power plant fuel consumption
augments it is necessary to use more fuel, and to obtain a satisfactory
flying radius without frequent landings for filling the fuel tank it is
necessary to supply large containers.

When a very powerful power plant is fitted, as on battle planes of high
capacity, it is necessary to carry large quantities of gasoline. In
order to use a tank of sufficiently large capacity it may be necessary
to carry it lower than the carburetor. When installed in this manner it
is necessary to force fuel out of the tank by air pressure or to pump it
with a vacuum tank because the gasoline tank is lower than the
carburetor it supplies and the gasoline cannot flow by gravity as in the
simpler systems. While the pressure and gravity feed systems are
generally used in airplanes, it may be well to describe the vacuum lift
system which has been widely applied to motor cars and which may have
some use in connection with airplanes as these machines are developed.


STEWART VACUUM FUEL FEED

One of the marked tendencies has been the adoption of a vacuum fuel feed
system to draw the gasoline from tanks placed lower than the carburetor
instead of using either exhaust gas or air pressure to achieve this end.
The device generally fitted is the Stewart vacuum feed tank which is
clearly shown in section at Fig. 42. In this system the suction of a
motor is employed to draw gasoline from the main fuel tank to the
auxiliary tank incorporated in the device and from this tank the liquid
flows to the carburetor. It is claimed that all the advantages of the
pressure system are obtained with very little more complication than is
found on the ordinary gravity feed. The mechanism is all contained in
the cylindrical tank shown, which may be mounted either on the front of
the dash or on the side of the engine as shown.

