[Illustration: Fig. 42.--The Stewart Vacuum Fuel Feed Tank.]

The tank is divided into two chambers, the upper one being the filling
chamber and the lower one the emptying chamber. The former, which is at
the top of the device, contains the float valve, as well as the pipes
running to the main fuel container and to the intake manifold. The lower
chamber is used to supply the carburetor with gasoline and is under
atmospheric pressure at all times, so the flow of fuel from it is by
means of gravity only. Since this chamber is located somewhat above the
carburetor, there must always be free flow of fuel. Atmospheric pressure
is maintained by the pipes A and B, the latter opening into the air. In
order that the fuel will be sucked from a main tank to the upper
chamber, the suction valve must be opened and the atmospheric valve
closed. Under these conditions the float is at the bottom and the
suction at the intake manifold produces a vacuum in the tank which draws
the gasoline from the main tank to the upper chamber. When the upper
chamber is filled at the proper height the float rises to the top, this
closing the suction valve and opening the atmospheric valve. As the
suction is now cut off, the lower chamber is filled by gravity owing to
there being atmospheric pressure in both upper and lower chambers. A
flap valve is provided between the two chambers to prevent the gasoline
in the lower one from being sucked back into the upper one. The
atmospheric and suction valves are controlled by the levers C and D,
both of which are pivoted at E, their outer ends being connected by two
coil springs. It is seen that the arrangement of these two springs is
such that the float must be held at the extremity of its movement, and
that it cannot assume an intermediate position.

This intermittent action is required to insure that the upper part of
the tank may be under atmospheric pressure part of the time for the
gasoline to flow to the lower chamber. When the level of gasoline drops
to a certain point, the float falls, thus opening the suction valve and
closing the atmospheric valve. The suction of the motor then causes a
flow of fuel from the main container. As soon as the level rises to the
proper height the float returns to its upper position. It takes about
two seconds for the chamber to become full enough to raise the float, as
but .05 gallon is transferred at a time. The pipe running from the
bottom of the lower chamber to the carburetor extends up a ways, so that
there is but little chance of dirt or water being carried to the float
chamber.

