If the engine is allowed to stand long enough so that the tank becomes
empty, it will be replenished after the motor has been cranked over four
or five times with the throttle closed. The installation of the Stewart
Vacuum-Gravity System is very simple. The suction pipe is tapped into
the manifold at a point as near the cylinders as possible, while the
fuel pipe is inserted into the gasoline tank and runs to the bottom of
that member. There is a screen at the end of the fuel pipe to prevent
any trouble due to deposits of sediment in the main container. As the
fuel is sucked from the gasoline tank a small vent must be made in the
tank filler cap so that the pressure in the main tank will always be
that of the atmosphere.


EARLY VAPORIZER FORMS

The early types of carbureting devices were very crude and cumbersome,
and the mixture of gasoline vapor and air was accomplished in three
ways. The air stream was passed over the surface of the liquid itself,
through loosely placed absorbent material saturated with liquid, or
directly through the fuel. The first type is known as the surface
carburetor and is now practically obsolete. The second form is called
the "wick" carburetor because the air stream was passed over or through
saturated wicking. The third form was known as a "bubbling" carburetor.
While these primitive forms gave fairly good results with the early
slow-speed engines and the high grade, or very volatile, gasoline which
was first used for fuel, they would be entirely unsuitable for present
forms of engines because they would not carburate the lower grades of
gasoline which are used to-day, and would not supply the modern
high-speed engines with gas of the proper consistency fast enough even
if they did not have to use very volatile gasoline. The form of
carburetor used at the present time operates on a different principle.
These devices are known as "spraying carburetors." The fuel is reduced
to a spray by the suction effect of the entering air stream drawing it
through a fine opening.

