The advantage of this construction is that a more thorough amalgamation
of the gasoline and air particles is obtained. With the earlier types
previously considered the air would combine with only the more volatile
elements, leaving the heavier constituents in the tank. As the fuel
became stale it was difficult to vaporize it, and it had to be drained
off and fresh fuel provided before the proper mixture would be produced.
It will be evident that when the fuel is sprayed into the air stream,
all the fuel will be used up and the heavier portions of the gasoline
will be taken into the cylinder and vaporized just as well as the more
volatile vapors.

[Illustration: Fig. 43.--Marine-Type Mixing Valve, by which Gasoline is
Sprayed into Air Stream Through Small Opening in Air-Valve Seat.]

The simplest form of spray carburetor is that shown at Fig. 43. In this
the gasoline opening through which the fuel is sprayed into the
entering air stream is closed by the spring-controlled mushroom valve
which regulates the main air opening as well. When the engine draws in a
charge of air it unseats the valve and at the same time the air flowing
around it is saturated with gasoline particles through the gasoline
opening. The mixture thus formed goes to the engine through the mixture
passage. Two methods of varying the fuel proportions are provided. One
of these consists of a needle valve to regulate the amount of gasoline,
the other is a knurled screw which controls the amount of air by
limiting the lift of the jump valve.


DEVELOPMENT OF FLOAT-FEED CARBURETOR

The modern form of spraying carburetor is provided with two chambers,
one a mixing chamber through which the air stream passes and mixes with
a gasoline spray, the other a float chamber in which a constant level of
fuel is maintained by simple mechanism. A jet or standpipe is used in
the mixing chamber to spray the fuel through and the object of the float
is to maintain the fuel level to such a point that it will not overflow
the jet when the motor is not drawing in a charge of gas. With the
simple forms of generator valve in which the gasoline opening is
controlled by the air valve, a leak anywhere in either valve or valve
seat will allow the gasoline to flow continuously whether the engine is
drawing in a charge or not. The liquid fuel collects around the air
opening, and when the engine inspires a charge it is saturated with
gasoline globules and is excessively rich. With a float-feed
construction, which maintains a constant level of gasoline at the right
height in the standpipe, liquid fuel will only be supplied when drawn
out of the jet by the suction effect of the entering air stream.

