
MAYBACH'S EARLY DESIGN

The first form of spraying carburetor ever applied successfully was
evolved by Maybach for use on one of the earliest Daimler engines. The
general principles of operation of this pioneer float-feed carburetor
are shown at Fig. 44, A. The mixing chamber and valve chamber were one
and the standpipe or jet protruded into the mixing chamber. It was
connected to the float compartment by a pipe. The fuel from the tank
entered the top of the float compartment and the opening was closed by a
needle valve carried on top of a hollow metal float. When the level of
gasoline in the float chamber was lowered the float would fall and the
needle valve uncover the opening. This would permit the gasoline from
the tank to flow into the float chamber, and as the chamber filled the
float would rise until the proper level had been reached, under which
conditions the float would shut off the gasoline opening. On every
suction stroke of the engine the inlet valve, which was an automatic
type, would leave its seat and a stream of air would be drawn through
the air opening and around the standpipe or jet. This would cause the
gasoline to spray out of the tube and mix with the entering air stream.

[Illustration: Fig. 44.--Tracing Evolution of Modern Spray Carburetor.
A--Early Form Evolved by Maybach. B.--Phoenix-Daimler Modification of
Maybach's Principle. C--Modern Concentric Float Automatic Compensating
Carburetor.]

The form shown at B was a modification of Maybach's simple device and
was first used on the Phoenix-Daimler engines. Several improvements are
noted in this device. First, the carburetor was made one unit by casting
the float and mixing chambers together instead of making them separate
and joining them by a pipe, as shown at A. The float construction was
improved and the gasoline shut-off valve was operated through leverage
instead of being directly fastened to the float. The spray nozzle was
surrounded by a choke tube which concentrated the air stream around it
and made for more rapid air flow at low engine speeds. A conical piece
was placed over the jet to break up the entering spray into a mist and
insure more intimate admixture of air and gasoline. The air opening was
provided with an air cone which had a shutter controlling the opening so
that the amount of air entering could be regulated and thus vary the
mixture proportions within certain limits.

