
CONCENTRIC FLOAT AND JET TYPE

The form shown at B has been further improved, and the type shown at C
is representative of modern single jet practice. In this the float
chamber and mixing chamber are concentric. A balanced float mechanism
which insures steadiness of feed is used, the gasoline jet or standpipe
is provided with a needle valve to vary the amount of gasoline supplied
the mixture and two air openings are provided. The main air port is at
the bottom of the vaporizer, while an auxiliary air inlet is provided at
the side of the mixing chamber. There are two methods of controlling the
mixture proportions in this form of carburetor. One may regulate the
gasoline needle or adjust the auxiliary air valve.


SCHEBLER CARBURETOR

A Schebler carburetor, which has been used on some airplane engines, is
shown in Fig. 45. It will be noticed that a metering pin or needle valve
opens the jet when the air valve opens. The long arm of a leverage is
connected to the air valve, while the short arm is connected to the
needle, the reduction in leverage being such that the needle valve is
made to travel much less than the air valve. For setting the amount of
fuel passed or the size of the jet orifice when running with the air
valve closed, there is a screw which raises or lowers the fulcrum of the
lever and there is also a dash control having the same effect by pushing
down the fulcrum against a small spring. A long extension is given to
the venturi tube which is very narrow around the jet orifices, which are
horizontal and shown at A in the drawing. Fuel enters the float chamber
through the union M, and the spring P holds the metering pin upward
against the restraining action of the lever. The air valve may be set by
an easily adjustable knurled screw shown in the drawing, and fluttering
of the valve is prevented by the piston dash pot carried in a chamber
above the valve into which the valve stem projects. The primary air
enters beneath the jet passage and there is a small throttle in the
intake to increase the speed of air flow for starting purposes. The
carburetor is adapted for the use of a hot-air connection to the stove
around the exhaust pipe and it is recommended that such a fitting be
supplied. The lever which controls the supply of air through the primary
air intake is so arranged that if desired it can be connected with a
linkage on the dash or control column by means of a flexible wire.

