[Illustration: Fig. 45.--New Model of Schebler Carburetor With Metering
Valve and Extended Venturi. Note Mechanical Connection Between Air Valve
and Fuel Regulating Needle.]


THE CLAUDEL (FRENCH) CARBURETOR

[Illustration: Fig. 46.--The Claudel Carburetor.]

This carburetor is of extremely simple construction, because it has no
supplementary or auxiliary air valve and no moving parts except the
throttle controlling the gas flow. The construction is already shown in
Fig. 46. The spray jet is eccentric with a surrounding sleeve or tube
in which there are two series of small orifices, one at the top and the
other near the bottom. The former are about level with the spray jet
opening. The sleeve surrounding the nozzle is closed at the top. The
air, passing the upper holes in the sleeve, produces a vacuum in the
sleeve, thereby drawing air in through the bottom holes. It is this
moving interior column of air that controls the flow of gasoline from
the nozzle. Owing to the friction of the small passages, the speed of
air flow through the sleeve does not increase as fast as the speed of
air flow outside the sleeve, hence there is a tendency for the mixture
to remain constant. The throttle of this carburetor is of the barrel
type, and the top of the spray nozzle and its surrounding sleeve are
located inside the throttle.


STEWART METERING PIN CARBURETOR

The carburetor shown at Fig. 47 is a metering type in which the vacuum
at the jet is controlled by the weight of the metering valve surrounding
the upright metering pin. The only moving part is the metering valve,
which rises and falls with the changes in vacuum. The air chamber
surrounds the metering valve, and there is a mixing chamber above. As
the valve is drawn up the gasoline passage is enlarged on account of the
predetermined taper on the metering pin, and the air passage also is
increased proportionately, giving the correct mixture. A dashpot at the
bottom of the valve checks flutter. In idling the valve rests on its
seat, practically closing the air and giving the necessary idling
mixture. A passage through the valve acts as an aspirating tube. When
the valve is closed altogether the primary air passes through ducts in
the valve itself, giving the proper amount for idling. The one
adjustment consists in raising or lowering the tapered metering pin,
increasing or decreasing the supply of gasoline. Dash control is
supplied. This pulls down the metering pin, increasing the gasoline
flow. The duplex type for eight- and twelve-cylinder motors is the same
in principle as model 25, but it is a double carburetor synchronized as
to throttle movements, adjustments, etc. The duplex for aeronautical
motors is made of cast aluminum alloy.

