[Illustration: Fig. 47.--The Stewart Metering Pin Carburetor.]


MULTIPLE NOZZLE VAPORIZERS

To secure properly proportioned mixtures some carburetor designers have
evolved forms in which two or more nozzles are used in a common mixing
chamber. The usual construction is to use two, one having a small
opening and placed in a small air tube and used only for low speeds,
the other being placed in a larger air tube and having a slightly
augmented bore so that it is employed on intermediate speeds. At high
speeds both jets would be used in series. Some multiple jet carburetors
could be considered as a series of these instruments, each one being
designed for certain conditions of engine action. They would vary from
small size just sufficient to run the engine at low speed to others
having sufficient capacity to furnish gas for the highest possible
engine speed when used in conjunction with the smaller members which
have been brought into service progressively as the engine speed has
been augmented. The multiple nozzle carburetor differs from that in
which a single spray tube is used only in the construction of the mixing
chamber, as a common float bowl can be used to supply all spray pipes.
It is common practice to bring the jets into action progressively by
some form of mechanical connection with the throttle or by automatic
valves.

The object of any multiple nozzle carburetor is to secure greater
flexibility and endeavor to supply mixtures of proper proportions at all
speeds of the engine. It should be stated, however, that while devices
of this nature lend themselves readily to practical application it is
more difficult to adjust them than the simpler forms having but one
nozzle. When a number of jets are used the liability of clogging up the
carburetor is increased, and if one or more of the nozzles is choked by
a particle of dirt or water the resulting mixture trouble is difficult
to detect. One of the nozzles may supply enough gasoline to permit the
engine to run well at certain speeds and yet not be adequate to supply
the proper amount of gas under other conditions. In adjusting a multiple
jet carburetor in which the jets are provided with gasoline regulating
needles, it is customary to consider each nozzle as a distinct
carburetor and to regulate it to secure the best motor action at that
throttle position which corresponds to the conditions under which the
jet is brought into service. For instance, that supplied the primary
mixing chamber should be regulated with the throttle partly closed,
while the auxiliary jet should be adjusted with the throttle fully
opened.

