
BALL AND BALL TWO-STAGE CARBURETOR

[Illustration: Fig. 48.--The Ball and Ball Two-Stage Carburetor.]

This is a two-stage vaporizing device, hot air being used in the primary
or initial stage of vaporization and cold air in the supplementary
stage. Referring to the sectional illustration at Fig. 48, it will be
seen that there is a hot-air passage with a choke-valve; the primary
venturi appears at B; J is its gasoline jet, and V is a spring-loaded
idling valve in a fixed air opening. These parts constitute the primary
system. In the secondary system A is a cold-air passage, T a butterfly
valve and J a gasoline jet discharging into the cold-air passage. This
system is brought into operation by opening the butterfly T. A
connection between the butterfly T and the throttle, not shown, throws
the butterfly wide open when the throttle is not quite wide open; at all
other times the butterfly is held closed by a spring. The cylindrical
chamber at the right of the mixing chamber has an extension E of reduced
diameter connecting it with the intake manifold through a passage D. A
restricted opening connects the float chamber with the cylindrical
chamber so that the gasoline level is the same in both. A loosely
fitting plunger P in the cylindrical chamber has an upward extension
into the small part of the chamber. O is a small air opening and M is a
passage from the cylindrical chamber to the mixing chamber. Air
constantly passes through this when the carburetor is in operation. The
carburetor is really two in one. The primary carburetor is made up of a
central jet in a venturi passage. The float chamber is eccentric. In the
air passage there is a fixed opening, and additional air is taken in by
the opening through suction of a spring-opposed air valve. The second
stage, which comes into play as soon as the carburetor is called upon
for additional mixture above low medium speeds, is made up of an
independent air passage containing another air valve. As the valve is
opened this jet is uncovered, and air is led past it. For easy starting
an extra passage leads from the float bowl passage to a point above the
throttle. All the suction falls upon this passage when the throttle is
closed. The passage contains a plunger and acts as a pick-up device.
When the vacuum increases the plunger rises and shuts off the flow of
gasoline from the intake passage. As the throttle is opened the vacuum
in the intake passage is broken, and the plunger falls, causing gasoline
to gather above it. This is immediately drawn through the pick-up
passage and gives the desired mixture for acceleration.

