
COMPOUND NOZZLE ZENITH CARBURETOR

[Illustration: Fig. 51.--Sectional View of Zenith Compound Nozzle
Compensating Carburetor.]

The Zenith carburetor, shown at Fig. 51, has become very popular for
airplane engine use because of its simplicity, as mixture compensation
is secured by a compensating compound nozzle principle that works very
well in practice. To illustrate this principle briefly, let us consider
the elementary type of carburetor or mixing valve, as shown in Fig. 52,
A. It consists of a single jet or spraying nozzle placed in the path of
the incoming air and fed from the usual float chamber. It is a natural
inference to suppose that as the speed of the motor increases, both the
flow of air and of gasoline will increase in the same proportion.
Unhappily, such is not the case. There is a law of liquid bodies which
states that the flow of gasoline from the jet increases under suction
faster than the flow of air, giving a mixture which grows richer and
richer--a mixture containing a much higher percentage of gasoline at
high suction than at low. The tendency is shown by the accompanying
curve (Fig. 52, B), which gives the ratio of gasoline to air at varying
speeds from this type of jet. The mixture is practically constant only
between narrow limits and at very high speed. The most common method of
correcting this defect is by putting various auxiliary air valves which,
adding air, tends to dilute this mixture as it gets too rich. It is
difficult with makeshift devices to gauge this dilution accurately for
every motor speed.

[Illustration: Fig. 52.--Diagrams Explaining Action of Baverey Compound
Nozzle Used in Zenith Carburetor.]

Now, if we have a jet which grows richer as the suction increases, the
opposite type of jet is one which would grow leaner under similar
conditions. Baverey, the inventor of the Zenith, discovered the
principle of the constant flow device which is shown in Fig. 52, C. Here
a certain fixed amount of gasoline determined by the opening I is
permitted to flow by gravity into the well J open to the air. The
suction at jet H has no effect upon the gravity compensator I because
the suction is destroyed by the open well J. The compensator, then,
delivers a steady rate of flow per unit of time, and as the motor
suction increases more air is drawn up, while the amount of gasoline
remains the same and the mixture grows poorer and poorer. Fig. 52, D,
shows this curve.

