By combining these two types of rich and poor mixture carburetors the
Zenith compound nozzle was evolved. In Fig. 52, E, we have both the
direct suction or richer type leading through pipe E and nozzle G and
the "constant flow" device of Baverey shown at J, I, K and nozzle H. One
counteracts the defects of the other, so that from the cranking of the
motor to its highest speed there is a constant ratio of air and
gasoline to supply efficient combustion.

In addition to the compound nozzle the Zenith is equipped with a
starting and idling well, shown in the cut of Model L carburetor at P
and J. This terminates in a priming hole at the edge of the butterfly
valve, where the suction is greatest when this valve is slightly open.
The gasoline is drawn up by the suction at the priming hole and, mixed
with the air rushing by the butterfly, gives an ideal slow speed
mixture. At higher speeds with the butterfly valve opened further the
priming well ceases to operate and the compound nozzle drains the well
and compensates correctly for any motor speed.

[Illustration: Fig. 53.--The Zenith Duplex Carburetor for Airplane
Motors of the V Type.]

With the coming of the double motor containing eight or twelve cylinders
arranged in two V blocks, the question of good carburetion has been a
problem requiring much study. The single carburetor has given only
indifferent results due to the strong cross suction in the inlet
manifold from one set of cylinders to the other. This naturally led to
the adoption of two carburetors in which each set of cylinders was
independently fed by a separate carburetor. Results from this system
were very good when the two carburetors were working exactly in unison,
but as it was extremely difficult to accomplish this co-operation,
especially where the adjustable type was employed, this system never
gained in favor. The next logical step was the Zenith Duplex, shown at
Fig. 53. This consists of two separate and distinct carburetors joined
together so that a common gasoline float chamber and air inlet could be
used by both. It does away with cross suction in the manifold because
each set of cylinders has a separate intake of its own. It does away
with two carburetors and makes for simplicity. The practical application
of the Zenith carburetor to the Curtiss 90 horse-power OX-2 motor used
on the JN-4 standard training machine is shown at Fig. 54, which
outlines a rear view of the engine in question. The carburetor is
carried low to permit of fuel supply from a gravity tank carried back of
the motor.

