[Illustration: Fig. 54.--Rear View of Curtiss OX-2 90 Horse-Power
Airplane Motor Showing Carburetor Location and Hot Air Leads.]


UTILITY OF GASOLINE STRAINERS

Many carburetors include a filtering screen at the point where the
liquid enters the float chamber in order to keep dirt or any other
foreign matter which may be present in the fuel from entering the float
chamber. This is not general practice, however, and the majority of
vaporizers do not include a filter in their construction. It is very
desirable that the dirt should be kept out of the carburetor because it
may get under the float control fuel valve and cause flooding by keeping
it raised from its seat. If it finds its way into the spray nozzle it
may block the opening so that no gasoline will issue or may so constrict
the passage that only very small quantities of fuel will be supplied the
mixture. Where the carburetor itself is not provided with a filtering
screen a simple filter is usually installed in the pipe line between the
gasoline tank and the float chamber.

Some simple forms of filters and separators are shown at Fig. 55. That
at A consists of a simple brass casting having a readily detachable
gauze screen and a settling chamber of sufficient capacity to allow the
foreign matter to settle to the bottom, from which it is drained out by
a pet cock. Any water or dirt in the gasoline will settle to the bottom
of the chamber, and as all fuel delivered to the carburetor must pass
through the wire gauze screen it is not likely to contain impurities
when it reaches the float chamber. The heavier particles, such as scale
from the tank or dirt and even water, all of which have greater weight
than the gasoline, will sink to the bottom of the chamber, whereas
light particles, such as lint, will be prevented from flowing into the
carburetor by the filtering screen.

[Illustration: Fig. 55.--Types of Strainers Interposed Between Vaporizer
and Gasoline Tank to Prevent Water or Dirt Passing Into Carbureting
Device.]

