The filtering device shown at B is a larger appliance than that shown at
A, and should be more efficient as a separator because the gasoline is
forced to pass through three filtering screens before it reaches the
carburetor. The gasoline enters the device shown at C through a bent
pipe which leads directly to the settling chamber and from thence
through a wire gauze screen to the upper compartment which leads to the
carburetor. The device shown at D is a combination strainer, drain, and
sediment cup. The filtering screen is held in place by a spring and
both are removed by taking out a plug at the bottom of the device. The
shut-off valve at the top of the device is interposed between the
sediment cup and the carburetor. This separating device is incorporated
with the gasoline tank and forms an integral part of the gasoline supply
system. The other types shown are designed to be interposed between the
gasoline tank and the carburetor at any point in the pipe line where
they may be conveniently placed.


INTAKE MANIFOLD DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

On four- and six-cylinder engines and in fact on all multiple-cylinder
forms, it is important that the piping leading from the carburetor to
the cylinders be made in such a way that the various cylinders will
receive their full quota of gas and that each cylinder will receive its
charge at about the same point in the cycle of operations. In order to
make the passages direct the bends should be as few as possible, and
when curves are necessary they should be of large radius because an
abrupt corner will not only impede gas flow but will tend to promote
condensation of the fuel. Every precaution should be taken with
four- and six-cylinder engines to insure equitable gas distribution to
the valve chambers if regular action of the power plant is desired. If
the gas pipe has many turns and angles it will be difficult to charge
all cylinders properly. On some six-cylinder aviation engines, two
carburetors are used because of trouble experienced with manifolds
designed for one carburetor. Duplex carburetors are necessary to secure
the best results from eight- and twelve-cylinder V engines.

