The problem of intake piping is simplified to some extent on block
motors where the intake passage is cored in the cylinder casting and
where but one short pipe is needed to join this passage to the
carburetor. If the cylinders are cast in pairs a simple pipe of T or Y
form can be used with success. When the engine is of a type using
individual cylinder castings, especially in the six-cylinder power
plants, the proper application and installation of suitable piping is a
difficult problem. The reader is referred to the various engine designs
outlined to ascertain how the inlet piping has been arranged on
representative aviation engines. Intake piping is constructed in two
ways, the most common method being to cast the manifold of brass or
aluminum. The other method, which is more costly, is to use a built-up
construction of copper or brass tubing with cast metal elbows and Y
pieces. One of the disadvantages advanced against the cast manifold is
that blowholes may exist which produce imperfect castings and which will
cause mixture troubles because the entering gas from the carburetor,
which may be of proper proportions, is diluted by the excess air which
leaks in through the porous casting. Another factor of some moment is
that the roughness of the walls has a certain amount of friction which
tends to reduce the velocity of the gases, and when projecting pieces
are present, such as core wire or other points of metal, these tend to
collect the drops of liquid fuel and thus promote condensation. The
advantage of the built-up construction is that the walls of the tubing
are very smooth, and as the castings are small it is not difficult to
clean them out thoroughly before they are incorporated in the manifold.
The tubing and castings are joined together by hard soldering, brazing
or autogenous welding.


COMPENSATING FOR VARYING ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS

The low-grade gasoline used at the present time makes it necessary to
use vaporizers that are more susceptible to atmospheric variations than
when higher grade and more volatile liquids are vaporized. Sudden
temperature changes, sometimes being as much as forty degrees rise or
fall in twelve hours, affect the mixture proportions to some extent, and
not only changes in temperature but variations in altitude also have a
bearing on mixture proportions by affecting both gasoline and air. As
the temperature falls the specific gravity of the gasoline increases
and it becomes heavier, this producing difficulty in vaporizing. The
tendency of very cold air is to condense gasoline instead of vaporizing
it and therefore it is necessary to supply heated air to some
carburetors to obtain proper mixtures during cold weather. In order that
the gas mixtures will ignite properly the fuel must be vaporized and
thoroughly mixed with the entering air either by heat or high velocity
of the gases. The application of air stoves to the Curtiss OX-2 motor is
clearly shown at Fig. 54. It will be seen that flexible metal pipes are
used to convey the heated air to the air intakes of the duplex mixing
chamber.

