11.25
------- = 30.6 horse-power.
14.7

"If the original compression ratio of 4.5 were retained, the drop in
horse-power would be even greater than this. These computations and
remarks will make it clear that the designer who contemplates building
an airplane for high altitude use should see to it that it is of
sufficient power to compensate for the drop that is inevitable when it
is up in the air. This is often illustrated in stationary gas-engine
installations. An engine that had a sea-level rating amply sufficient
for the work required, might not be powerful enough when brought up
several thousand feet." When one considers that airplanes attain heights
of over 18,000 feet, it will be evident that an ample margin of engine
power is necessary.


THE DIESEL SYSTEM

A system of fuel supply developed by the late Dr. Diesel, a German
chemist and engineer, is attracting considerable attention at the
present time on account of the ability of the Diesel engine to burn
low-grade fuels, such as crude petroleum. In this system the engines are
built so that very high compressions are used, and only pure air is
taken into the cylinder on the induction stroke. This is compressed to a
pressure of about 500 pounds per square inch, and sufficient heat is
produced by this compression to explode a hydrocarbon mixture. As the
air which is compressed to this high point cannot burn, the fuel is
introduced into the cylinder combustion chamber under still higher
compression than that of the compressed air, and as it is injected in a
fine stream it is immediately vaporized because of the heat. Just as
soon as the compressed air becomes thoroughly saturated with the liquid
fuel, it will explode on account of the degree of heat present in the
combustion chamber. Such motors have been used in marine and stationary
applications, but are not practical for airplanes or motor cars because
of lack of flexibility and great weight in proportion to power
developed. The Diesel engine is the standard power plant used in
submarine boats and motor ships, as its efficiency renders it
particularly well adapted for large units.

