
NOTES ON CARBURETOR INSTALLATION IN AIRPLANES

A writer in "The Aeroplane," an English publication, discourses on some
features of carburetor installation that may be of interest to the
aviation student, so portions of the dissertation are reproduced
herewith.

"Users of airplanes fitted with ordinary type carburetors will
do well to note carefully the way in which these are fitted, for
several costly machines have been burnt lately through the sheer
carelessness of their users. These particular machines were
fitted with a high powered V-type engine, made by a firm which
is famous as manufacturers of automobiles _de luxe_. In these
engines there are four carburetors, mounted in the V between the
cylinders. When the engine is fitted as a tractor, the float
chambers are in front of the jet chambers. Consequently, when
the tail of the machine is resting on the ground, the jets are
lower than the level of the gasoline in the float chamber.

"Quite naturally, the gasoline runs out of the jet, if it is
left turned on when the machine is standing in its normal
position, and trickles into the V at the top of the crank-case.
Thence it runs down to the tail of the engine, where the
magnetos are fitted, and saturates them. If left long enough,
the gasoline manages to soak well into the fuselage before
evaporating. And what does evaporate makes an inflammable gas in
the forward cockpit. Then some one comes along and starts up the
engine. The spark-gap of the magneto gives one flash, and the
whole front of the machine proceeds to give a Fourth of July
performance forthwith. Naturally, one safeguard is to turn the
petrol off directly the machine lands. Another is never to turn
it on till the engine is actually being started up.

"One would be asking too much of the human boy--who is
officially regarded as the only person fit to fly an
aeroplane--if one depended upon his memory of such a detail to
save his machine, though one might perhaps reasonably expect the
older pilots to remember not to forget. Even so, other means of
prevention are preferable, for fire is quite as likely to occur
from just the same cause if the engine happens to be a trifle
obstinate in starting, and so gives the carburetors several
minutes in which to drip--in which operation they would probably
be assisted by air-mechanics 'tickling' them.

