"One way out of the trouble is to fit drip tins under the jet
chamber to catch the gasoline as it falls. This is all very well
just to prevent fire while the machine is being started up, but
it will not save it if it is left standing with the tail on the
ground and the petrol turned on, for the drip tins will then
fill up and run over. And if it catches then, the contents of
the drip tins merely add fuel to the fire.


_Reversing Carburetors_

"Yet another way is to turn the carburetors round, so that the
float chambers are behind the jets, and so come below them when
the tail is on the ground, thus cutting off the gasoline low
down in the jets. There seems to be no particular mechanical
difficulty about this, though I must confess that I did not note
very carefully whether the reversal of the float chambers would
make them foul any other fittings on the engine. It has been
argued, however, that doing this would starve the engine of
gasoline when climbing at a steep angle, as the gasoline would
then be lowered in the jets and need more suction to get into
the cylinders. This is rather a pretty point of amateur motor
mechanics to discuss, for, obviously, when the same engine is
used as a 'pusher' instead of a tractor, the jets are in front
of the floats, and there seems to be no falling off in power.


_Starvation of Mixture_

"Moreover, the higher a machine goes the lower is the
atmospheric pressure, and, consequently, the less is the amount
of air sucked in at each induction stroke. This means, of
course, that with the gasoline supply the mixture at high
altitudes is too rich, so that, in order to get precisely the
right mixture when very high up, it is necessary to reduce the
gasoline supply by screwing down the needle valve between the
tank and the carburetor--at least, that has been the experience
of various high-flying pilots. No doubt something might be done
in the way of forced air feed to compensate for reduced
atmospheric pressure, but it remains to be proved whether the
extra weight of mechanism involved would pay for the extra power
obtained. Variable compression might do something, also, to even
things up, but here, also, weight of mechanism has to be
considered.

