"On the whole, it seems that it might be better practice to set
the carburetors thwartwise of engines, for then jets and floats
would always be at approximately the same level, no matter what
the longitudinal position of the machine, and it is never long
enough in one position at a big lateral angle to raise any
serious carburetor troubles. Car manufacturers who dive
cheerfully into the troubled waters of aero-engine designs are
a trifle apt to forget that their engines are put into positions
on airplanes which would be positively indecent in a motor car.
An angle of 1 in 10 is the exception on a car, but it is common
on an airplane, and no one ever heard of a car going down a hill
of 10 to 1--which is not quite a vertical dive. Therefore, there
is every excuse for a well-designed and properly brought-up
carburetor misbehaving itself in an aeroplane.

"It seems, then, that it is up to the manufacturers to produce
better carburetors--say, with the jet central with the float.
But it also behooves the user to show ordinary common sense in
handling the material at present available, and not to make a
practice of burning up $25,000 worth or so of airplane just
because he is too lazy to turn off his gasoline, or to have the
tail of his machine lifted up while he is tinkering with his
engines."


NOTES ON CARBURETOR ADJUSTMENT

The modern float feed carburetor is a delicate and nicely balanced
appliance that requires a certain amount of attention and care in order
to obtain the best results. The adjustments can only be made by one
possessing an intelligent knowledge of carburetor construction and must
never be made unless the reason for changing the old adjustment is
understood. Before altering the adjustment of the leading forms of
carburetors, a few hints regarding the quality to be obtained in the
mixture should be given some consideration, as if these are properly
understood this knowledge will prove of great assistance in adjusting
the vaporizer to give a good working proportion of fuel and air. There
is some question regarding the best mixture proportions and it is
estimated that gas will be explosive in which the proportions of fuel
vapor and air will vary from one part of the former to a wide range
included between four and eighteen parts of the latter. A one to four
mixture is much too rich, while the one in eighteen is much too lean to
provide positive ignition.

