A rich mixture should be avoided because the excessive fuel used will
deposit carbon and will soot the cylinder walls, combustion chamber
interior, piston top and valves and also tend to overheat the motor. A
rich mixture will also seriously interfere with flexible control of the
engine, as it will choke up on low throttle and run well on open
throttle when the full amount of gas is needed. A rich mixture may be
quickly discovered by black smoke issuing from the muffler, the exhaust
gas having a very pungent odor. If the mixture contains a surplus of air
there will be popping sounds in the carburetor, which is commonly termed
"blowing back." To adjust a carburetor is not a difficult matter when
the purpose of the various control members is understood. The first
thing to do in adjusting a carburetor is to start the motor and to
retard the sparking lever so the motor will run slowly leaving the
throttle about half open. In order to ascertain if the mixture is too
rich cut down the gasoline flow gradually by screwing down the needle
valve until the motor commences to run irregularly or misfire. Close the
needle valves as far as possible without having the engine come to a
stop, and after having found the minimum amount of fuel gradually
unscrew the adjusting valve until you arrive at the point where the
engine develops its highest speed. When this adjustment is secured the
lock nut is screwed in place so the needle valve will keep the
adjustment. The next point to look out for is regulation of the
auxiliary air supply on those types of carburetors where an adjustable
air valve is provided. This is done by advancing the spark lever and
opening the throttle. The air valve is first opened or the spring
tension reduced to a point where the engine misfires or pops back in the
carburetor. When the point of maximum air supply the engine will run on
is thus determined, the air valve spring may be tightened by screwing in
on the regulating screw until the point is reached where an appreciable
speeding up of the engine is noticed. If both fuel and air valves are
set right, it will be possible to accelerate the engine speed uniformly
without interfering with regularity of engine operation by moving the
throttle lever or accelerator pedal from its closed to its wide open
position, this being done with the spark lever advanced. All types of
carburetors do not have the same means of adjustment; in fact, some
adjust only with the gasoline regulating needle; others must have a
complete change of spray nozzles; while in others the mixture
proportions may be varied only by adjustment of the quantity of entering
air. Changing the float level is effective in some carburetors, but this
should never be done unless it is certain that the level is not correct.
Full instructions for locating carburetion troubles will be given in
proper sequence.

