It is a fact well known to experienced repairmen and motorists that
atmospheric conditions have much to do with carburetor action. It is
often observed that a motor seems to develop more power at night than
during the day, a circumstance which is attributed to the presence of
more moisture in the cooler night air. Likewise, taking a motor from sea
level to an altitude of 10,000 feet involves using rarefied air in the
engine cylinders and atmospheric pressures ranging from 14.7 pounds at
sea level to 10.1 pounds per square inch at the high altitude. All
carburetors will require some adjustment in the course of any material
change from one level to another. Great changes of altitude also have a
marked effect on the cooling system of an airplane. Water boils at 212
degrees F. only at sea level. At an altitude of 10,000 feet it will boil
at a temperature nineteen degrees lower, or 193 degrees F.

In high altitudes the reduced atmospheric pressure, for 5,000 feet or
higher than sea level, results in not enough air reaching the mixture,
so that either the auxiliary air opening has to be increased, or the
gasoline in the mixture cut down. If the user is to be continually at
high altitudes he should immediately purchase either a larger dome or a
smaller strangling tube, mentioning the size carburetor that is at
present in use and the type of motor that it is on, including details as
to the bore and stroke. The smaller strangling tube makes an increased
suction at the spray nozzle; the air will have to be readjusted to meet
it and you can use more auxiliary air, which is necessary. The effect
on the motor without a smaller strangling tube is a perceptible
sluggishness and failure to speed up to its normal crank-shaft
revolutions, as well as failure to give power. It means that about
one-third of the regular speed is cut out. The reduced atmospheric
pressure reduces the power of the explosion, in that there is not the
same quantity of oxygen in the combustion chamber as at sea level; to
increase the amount taken in, you must also increase the gasoline speed,
which is done by an increased suction through the smaller strangling
aperture. Some forms of carburetors are affected more than others by
changes of altitude, which explains why the Zenith is so widely employed
for airplane engine use. The compensating nozzle construction is not
influenced as much by changes of altitude as the simpler nozzle types
are.

