Some engineers utilized the property of gases firing themselves if
compressed to a sufficient degree, while others depended upon the heat
stored in the cylinder-head to fire the highly compressed gas. None of
these methods were practical in their application to motor car engines
because they did not permit flexible engine action which is so
desirable. At the present time, electrical ignition systems in which the
compressed gas is exploded by the heating value of the minute electric
arc or spark in the cylinder are standard, and the general practice
seems to be toward the use of mechanical producers of electricity rather
than chemical batteries.


ELECTRICAL IGNITION BEST

Two general forms of electrical ignition systems may be used, the most
popular being that in which a current of electricity under high tension
is made to leap a gap or air space between the points of the sparking
plug screwed into the cylinder. The other form, which has been almost
entirely abandoned in automobile and which was never used with airplane
engine practice, but which is still used to some extent on marine
engines, is called the low-tension system because current of low voltage
is used and the spark is produced by moving electrodes in the combustion
chamber.

The essential elements of any electrical ignition system, either high or
low tension, are: First, a simple and practical method of current
production; second, suitable timing apparatus to cause the spark to
occur at the right point in the cycle of engine action; third, suitable
wiring and other apparatus to convey the current produced by the
generator to the sparking member in the cylinder.

The various appliances necessary to secure prompt ignition of the
compressed gases should be described in some detail because of the
importance of the ignition system. It is patent that the scope of a work
of this character does not permit one to go fully into the theory and
principles of operation of all appliances which may be used in
connection with gasoline motor ignition, but at the same time it is
important that the elementary principles be considered to some extent in
order that the reader should have a proper understanding of the very
essential ignition apparatus. The first point considered will be the
common methods of generating the electricity, then the appliances to
utilize it and produce the required spark in the cylinder. Inasmuch as
magneto ignition is universally used in connection with airplane engine
ignition it will not be necessary to consider battery ignition systems.

