
FUNDAMENTALS OF MAGNETISM OUTLINED

To properly understand the phenomena and forces involved in the
generation of electrical energy by mechanical means it is necessary to
become familiar with some of the elementary principles of magnetism and
its relation to electricity. The following matter can be read with
profit by those who are not familiar with the subject. Most persons know
that magnetism exists in certain substances, but many are not able to
grasp the terms used in describing the operation of various electrical
devices because of not possessing a knowledge of the basic facts upon
which the action of such apparatus is based.

Magnetism is a property possessed by certain substances and is
manifested by the ability to attract and repel other materials
susceptible to its effects. When this phenomenon is manifested by a
conductor or wire through which a current of electricity is flowing it
is termed "electro-magnetism." Magnetism and electricity are closely
related, each being capable of producing the other. Practically all of
the phenomena manifested by materials which possess magnetic qualities
naturally can be easily reproduced by passing a current of electricity
through a body which, when not under electrical influence, is not a
magnetic substance. Only certain substances show magnetic properties,
these being iron, nickel, cobalt and their alloys.

The earliest known substance possessing magnetic properties was a stone
first found in Asia Minor. It was called the lodestone or leading stone,
because of its tendency, if arranged so it could be moved freely, of
pointing one particular portion toward the north. The compass of the
ancient Chinese mariners was a piece of this material, now known to be
iron ore, suspended by a light thread or floated on a cork in some
liquid so one end would point toward the north magnetic pole of the
earth. The reason that this stone was magnetic was hard to define for a
time, until it was learned that the earth was one huge magnet and that
the iron ore, being particularly susceptible, absorbed and retained some
of this magnetism.

