Most of us are familiar with some of the properties of the magnet
because of the extensive sale and use of small horseshoe magnets as
toys. As they only cost a few pennies every one has owned one at some
time or other and has experimented with various materials to see if they
would be attracted. Small pieces of iron or steel were quickly attracted
to the magnet and adhered to the pole pieces when brought within the
zone of magnetic influence. It was soon learned that brass, copper, tin
or zinc were not affected by the magnet. A simple experiment that serves
to illustrate magnetic attraction of several substances is shown at A,
Fig. 57. In this, several balls are hung from a standard or support, one
of these being of iron, another of steel. When a magnet is brought near
either of these they will be attracted toward it, while the others will
remain indifferent to the magnetic force. Experimenters soon learned
that of the common metals only iron or steel were magnetic.

[Illustration: Fig. 57.--Some Simple Experiments to Demonstrate Various
Magnetic Phenomena and Clearly Outline Effects of Magnetism and Various
Forms of Magnets.]

If the ordinary bar or horseshoe magnet be carefully examined, one end
will be found to be marked N. This indicates the north pole, while the
other end is not usually marked and is the south pole. If the north pole
of one magnet is brought near the south pole of another, a strong
attraction will exist between them, this depending upon the size of the
magnets used and the air gap separating the poles. If the south pole of
one magnet is brought close to the end of the same polarity of the other
there will be a pronounced repulsion of like force. These facts are
easily proved by the simple experiment outlined at B, Fig. 57. A magnet
will only attract or influence a substance having similar qualities. The
like poles of magnets will repel each other because of the obvious
impossibility of uniting two influences or forces of practically equal
strength but flowing in opposite directions. The unlike poles of magnets
attract each other because the force is flowing in the same direction.
The flow of magnetism is through the magnet from south to north and the
circuit is completed by the flow of magnetic influence through the air
gap or metal armature bridging it from the north to the south pole.

