
FORMS OF MAGNETS AND ZONE OF MAGNETIC INFLUENCE DEFINED

Magnets are commonly made in two forms, either in the shape of a bar or
horseshoe. These two forms are made in two types, simple or compound.
The latter are composed of a number of magnets of the same form united
so the ends of like polarity are laced together, and such a construction
will be more efficient and have more strength than a simple magnet of
the same weight. The two common forms of simple and compound magnets are
shown at C, Fig. 57. The zone in which a magnetic influence occurs is
called the magnetic field, and this force can be graphically shown by
means of imaginary lines, which are termed "lines of force." As will be
seen from the diagram at D, Fig. 57, the lines show the direction of
action of the magnetic force and also show its strength, as they are
closer together and more numerous when the intensity of the magnetic
field is at its maximum. A simple method of demonstrating the presence
of the force is to lay a piece of thin paper over the pole pieces of
either a bar or horseshoe magnet and sprinkle fine iron filings on it.
The particles of metal arrange themselves in very much the manner shown
in the illustrations and prove that the magnetic field actually exists.

The form of magnet used will materially affect the size and area of the
magnetic field. It will be noted that the field will be concentrated to
a greater extent with the horseshoe form because of the proximity of the
poles. It should be understood that these lines have no actual
existence, but are imaginary and assumed to exist only to show the way
the magnetic field is distributed. The magnetic influence is always
greater at the poles than at the center, and that is why a horseshoe or
U-form magnet is used in practically all magnetos or dynamos. This
greater attraction at the poles can be clearly demonstrated by
sprinkling iron filings on bar and U magnets, as outlined at E, Fig. 57.
A large mass gathers at the pole pieces, gradually tapering down toward
the point where the attraction is least.

