From the diagrams it will be seen that the flow of magnetism is from one
pole to the other by means of curved paths between them. This circuit is
completed by the magnetism flowing from one pole to the other through
the magnet, and as this flow is continued as long as the body remains
magnetic it constitutes a magnetic circuit. If this flow were
temporarily interrupted by means of a conductor of electricity moving
through the field there would be a current of electricity induced in the
conductor every time it cut the lines of force. There are three kinds of
magnetic circuits. A non-magnetic circuit is one in which the magnetic
influence completes its circuit through some substance not susceptible
to the force. A closed magnetic circuit is one in which the influence
completes its circuit through some magnetic material which bridges the
gap between the poles. A compound circuit is that in which the magnetic
influence passes through magnetic substances and non-magnetic substances
in order to complete its circuit.


HOW IRON AND STEEL BARS ARE MADE MAGNETIC

Magnetism may be produced in two ways, by contact or induction. If a
piece of steel is rubbed on a magnet it will be found a magnet when
removed, having a north and south pole and all of the properties found
in the energizing magnet. This is magnetizing by contact. A piece of
steel will retain the magnetism imparted to it for a considerable length
of time, and the influence that remains is known as residual magnetism.
This property may be increased by alloying the steel with tungsten and
hardening it before it is magnetized. Any material that will retain its
magnetic influence after removal from the source of magnetism is known
as a permanent magnet. If a piece of iron or steel is brought into the
magnetic field of a powerful magnet it becomes a magnet without actual
contact with the energizer. This is magnetizing by magnetic induction.
If a powerful electric current flows through an insulated conductor
wound around a piece of iron or steel it will make a magnet of it. This
is magnetizing by electro-magnetic induction. A magnet made in this
manner is termed an electro-magnet and usually the metal is of such a
nature that it will not retain its magnetism when the current ceases to
flow around it. Steel is used in all cases where permanent magnets are
required, while soft iron is employed in all cases where an intermittent
magnetic action is desired. Magneto field magnets are always made of
tungsten steel alloy, so treated that it will retain its magnetism for
lengthy periods.

