
ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM CLOSELY RELATED

There are many points in which magnetism and electricity are alike. For
instance, air is a medium that offers considerable resistance to the
passage of both magnetic influence and electric energy, although it
offers more resistance to the passage of the latter. Minerals like iron
or steel are very easily influenced by magnetism and easily penetrated
by it. When one of these is present in the magnetic circuit the
magnetism will flow through the metal. Any metal is a good conductor for
the passage of the electric current, but few metals are good conductors
of magnetic energy. A body of the proper metal will become a magnet due
to induction if placed in the magnetic field, having a south pole where
the lines of force enter it and a north pole where they pass out.

We have seen that a magnet is constantly surrounded by a magnetic field
and that an electrical conductor when carrying a current is also
surrounded by a field of magnetic influence. Now if the conductor
carrying a current of electricity will induce magnetism in a bar of iron
or steel, by a reversal of this process, a magnetized iron or steel bar
will produce a current of electricity in a conductor. It is upon this
principle that the modern dynamo or magneto is constructed. If an
electro-motive force is induced in a conductor by moving it across a
field of magnetic influence, or by passing a magnetic field near a
conductor, electricity is said to be generated by magneto-electric
induction. All mechanical generators of the electric current using
permanent steel magnets to produce a field of magnetic influence are of
this type.


BASIC PRINCIPLES OF MAGNETO OUTLINED

The accompanying diagram, Fig. 58, will show these principles very
clearly. As stated on an earlier page, if the lines of force in the
magnetic field are cut by a suitable conductor an electrical impulse
will be produced in that conductor. In this simple machine the lines of
force exist between the poles of a horseshoe magnet. The conductor,
which in this case is a loop of copper wire, is mounted upon a spindle
in order that it may be rotated in the magnetic field to cut the lines
of magnetic influence present between the pole pieces. Both of the ends
of this loop are connected, one with the insulated drum shown upon the
shaft, the other to the shaft. Two metal brushes are employed to collect
the current and cause it to flow through the external circuit. It can
be seen that when the shaft is turned in the direction of the arrow the
loop will cut through the lines of magnetic influence and a current will
be generated therein.

