[Illustration: Fig. 58.--Elementary Form of Magneto Showing Principal
Parts Simplified to Make Method of Current Generation Clear.]

The pressure of the current and the amount produced vary in accordance
to the rapidity with which the lines of magnetic influence are cut. The
armature of a practical magneto, therefore, differs materially from that
shown in the diagram. A large number of loops of wire would be mounted
upon this shaft in order that the lines of magnetic influence would be
cut a greater number of times in a given period and a core of iron used
as a backing for the wire. This would give a more rapid alternating
current and a higher electro-motive force than would be the case with a
smaller number of loops of wire.

[Illustration: Fig. 59.--Showing How Strength of Magnetic Influence and
of the Currents Induced in the Windings of Armature Vary with the
Rapidity of Changes of Flow.]

The illustrations at Fig. 59 show a conventional double winding
armature and field magnetic of a practical magneto in part section and
will serve to more fully emphasize the points previously made. If the
armature or spindle were removed from between the pole pieces there
would exist a field of magnetic influence as shown at Fig. 57, but the
introduction of this component provides a conductor (the iron core) for
the magnetic energy, regardless of its position, though the facility
with which the influence will be transmitted depends entirely upon the
position of the core. As shown at A, the magnetic flow is through the
main body in a straight line, while at B, which position the armature
has attained after one-eighth revolution, or 45 degrees travel in the
direction of the arrow, the magnetism must pass through in the manner
indicated. At C, which position is attained every half revolution, the
magnetic energy abandons the longer path through the body of the core
for the shorter passage offered by the side pieces, and the field thrown
out by the cross bar disappears. On further rotation of the armature, as
at D, the body of the core again becomes energized as the magnetic
influence resumes its flow through it. These changes in the strength of
the magnetic field when distorted by the armature core, as well as the
intensity of the energy existing in the field, affect the windings, and
the electrical energy induced therein corresponds in strength to the
rapidity with which these changes in magnetic flow occur. The most
pronounced changes in the strength of the field will occur as the
armature passes from position B to D, because the magnetic field
existing around the core will be destroyed and again re-established.

