During the most of the armature rotation the changes in strength will be
slight and the currents induced in the wire correspondingly small; but
at the instant the core becomes remagnetized, as the armature leaves
position C, the current produced will be at its maximum, and it is
necessary to so time the rotation of the armature that at this instant
one of the cylinders is in condition to be fired. It is imperative that
the armature be driven in such relation to the crank-shaft that each
production of maximum current coincides with the ignition point, this
condition existing twice during each revolution of the armature, or at
every 180 degrees travel. Each position shown corresponds to 45 degrees
travel of the armature, or one-eighth of a turn, and it takes just
three-eighths revolution to change the position from A to that shown at
D.


ESSENTIAL PARTS OF A MAGNETO AND THEIR FUNCTIONS

The magnets which produce the influence that in turn induces the
electrical energy in the winding or loops of wire on the armature, and
which may have any even number of opposed poles, are called field
magnets. The loops of wire which are mounted upon a suitable drum and
rotate in the field of magnetic influence in order to cut the lines of
force is called an armature winding, while the core is the metal
portion. The entire assembly is called the armature. The exposed ends of
the magnets are called pole pieces and the arrangement used to collect
the current is either a commutator or a collector. The stationary pieces
which bear against the collector or commutator and act as terminals for
the outside circuit are called brushes. These brushes are often of
copper, or some of its alloys, because copper has a greater electrical
conductivity than any other metal.

These brushes are nearly always of carbon, which is sometimes
electroplated with copper to increase its electrical conductivity,
though cylinders of copper wire gauze impregnated with graphite are
utilized at times. Carbon is used because it is not so liable to cut the
metal of the commutator as might be the case if the contact was of the
metal to metal type. The reason for this is that carbon has the peculiar
property in that it materially assists in the lubrication of the
commutator, and being of soft, unctuous composition, will wear and
conform to any irregularities on the surface of the metal collector
rings.

