The magneto in common use consists of a number of horseshoe magnets
which are compound in form and attached to suitable cast-iron pole
pieces used to collect and concentrate the magnetic influence of the
various magnets. Between these pole pieces an armature rotates. This is
usually shaped like a shuttle, around which are wound coils of insulated
wire. These are composed of a large number of turns and the current
produced depends in great measure upon the size of the wire and the
number of turns per coil. An armature winding of large wire will deliver
a current of great amperage, but of small voltage. An armature wound
with very fine wire will deliver a current of high voltage but of low
amperage. In the ordinary form of magneto, such as used for ignition,
the current is alternating in character and the break in the circuit
should be timed to occur when the armature is at the point of its
greatest potential or pressure. Where such a generator is designed for
direct current production the ends of the winding are attached to the
segments of a commutator, but where the instrument is designed to
deliver an alternating current one end of the winding is fastened to an
insulator ring on one end of the armature shaft and the other end is
grounded on the frame of the machine.

The quantity of the current depends upon the strength of the magnetic
field and the number of lines of magnetic influence acting through the
armature. The electro-motive force varies as to the length of the
armature winding and the number of revolutions at which the armature is
rotated.


THE TRANSFORMER SYSTEM USES LOW VOLTAGE MAGNETO

The magneto in the various systems which employ a transformer coil is
very similar to a low-tension generator in general construction, and the
current delivered at the terminals seldom exceeds 100 volts. As it
requires many times that potential or pressure to leap the gap which
exists between the points of the conventional spark plug, a separate
coil is placed in circuit to intensify the current to one of greater
capacity. The essential parts of such a system and their relation to
each other are shown in diagrammatic form at Fig. 60 and as a complete
system at Fig. 61. As is true of other systems the magnetic influence is
produced by permanent steel magnets clamped to the cast-iron pole pieces
between which the armature rotates. At the point of greatest potential
in the armature winding the current is broken by the contact breaker,
which is actuated by a cam, and a current of higher value is induced in
the secondary winding of the transformer coil when the low voltage
current is passed through the primary winding.

