[Illustration: Fig. 60.--Diagrams Explaining Action of Low Tension
Transformer Coil and True High Tension Magneto Ignition Systems.]

[Illustration: Fig. 60A.--Side Sectional View of Bosch High-Tension
Magneto Shows Disposition of Parts. End Elevation Depicts Arrangement of
Interruptor and Distributor Mechanism.]

It will be noted that the points of the contact breaker are together
except for the brief instant when separated by the action of the point
of the cam upon the lever. It is obvious that the armature winding is
short-circuited upon itself except when the contact points are
separated. While the armature winding is thus short-circuited there will
be practically no generation of current. When the points are separated
there is a sudden flow of current through the primary winding of the
transformer coil, inducing a secondary current in the other winding,
which can be varied in strength by certain considerations in the
preliminary design of the apparatus. This current of higher potential or
voltage is conducted directly to the plug if the device is fitted to a
single-cylinder engine, or to the distributor arm if fitted to a
multiple-cylinder motor. The distributor consists of an insulator in
which is placed a number of segments, one for each cylinder to be fired,
and so spaced that the number of degrees between them correspond to the
ignition points of the motor. A two-cylinder motor would have two
segments, a three-cylinder, three segments, and so on within the
capacity of the instrument. In the illustration a four-cylinder
distributor is fitted, and the distributing arm is in contact with the
segment corresponding to the cylinder about to be fired.

[Illustration: Fig. 61.--Berling Two-Spark Dual Ignition System.]


TRUE HIGH-TENSION MAGNETOS ARE SELF-CONTAINED

[Illustration: Fig. 62.--Berling Double-Spark Independent System.]

The true high-tension magneto differs from the preceding inasmuch as the
current of high voltage is produced in the armature winding direct,
without the use of the separate coil. Instead of but one coil, the
armature carries two, one of comparatively coarse wire, the other of
many turns of finer wire. The arrangement of these windings can be
readily ascertained by reference to the diagram B, Fig. 60, which shows
the principle of operation very clearly. The simplicity of the ignition
system is evident by inspection of Fig. 62. One end of the primary
winding (coarse wire) is coupled or grounded to the armature core, and
the other passes to the insulated part of the interrupter. While in some
forms the interrupter or contact breaker mechanism does not revolve, the
desired motion being imparted to the contact lever to separate the
points of a revolving cam, in this the cam or tripping mechanism is
stationary and the contact breaker revolves. This arrangement makes it
possible to conduct the current from the revolving primary coil to the
interrupter by a direct connection, eliminating the use of brushes,
which would otherwise be necessary. In other forms of this appliance
where the winding is stationary, the interrupter may be operated by a
revolving cam, though, if desired, the used of a brush at this point
will permit this construction with a revolving winding.

