During the revolution of the armature the grounded lever makes and
breaks contact with the insulated point, short-circuiting the primary
winding upon itself until the armature reaches the proper position of
maximum intensity of current production, at which time the circuit is
broken, as in the former instance. One end of the secondary winding
(fine wire) is grounded on the live end of the primary, the other end
being attached to the revolving arm of the distributor mechanism. So
long as a closed circuit is maintained feeble currents will pass through
the primary winding, and so long as the contact points are together this
condition will exist. When the current reaches its maximum value,
because of the armature being in the best position, the cam operates the
interrupter and the points are separated, breaking the short circuit
which has existed in the primary winding.

The secondary circuit has been open while the distributor arm has moved
from one contact to another and there has been no flow of energy through
this winding. While the electrical pressure will rise in this, even if
the distributor arm contacted with one of the segments, there would be
no spark at the plug until the contact points separated, because the
current in the secondary winding would not be of sufficient strength.
When the interrupter operates, however, the maximum primary current will
be diverted from its short circuit and can flow to the ground only
through the secondary winding and spark-plug circuit. The high pressure
now existing in the secondary winding will be greatly increased by the
sudden flow of primary current, and energy of high enough potential to
successfully bridge the gap at the plug is thereby produced in the
winding.


THE BERLING MAGNETO

[Illustration: Fig. 63.--Type DD Berling High Tension Magneto.]

The Berling magneto is a true high tension type delivering two impulses
per revolution, but it is made in a variety of forms, both single and
double spark. Its principle of action does not differ in essentials from
the high tension type previously described. This magneto is used on
Curtiss aviation engines and will deliver sparks in a positive manner
sufficient to insure ignition of engines up to 200 horse-power and at
rotative speeds of the magneto armature up to 4,000 r. p. m. which is
sufficient to take care of an eight-cylinder V engine running up to
2,000 r. p. m. The magneto is driven at crank-shaft speed on
four-cylinder engines, at 1-1/2 times crank-shaft speed on six-cylinder
engines and at twice crank-shaft speed on eight-cylinder V types. The
types "D" and "DD" BERLING Magnetos are interchangeable with
corresponding magnetos of other standard makes. The dimensions of the
four-, six- and eight-cylinder types "D" and "DD" are all the same.

