The ideal method of driving the magneto is by means of flexible direct
connecting coupling to a shaft intended for the purpose of driving the
magneto. As the magneto must be driven at a high speed, a coupling of
some flexibility is preferable. The employment of such a coupling will
facilitate the mounting of the magneto, because a small inaccuracy in
the lining up of the magneto with the driving shaft will be taken care
of by the flexible coupling, whereas with a perfectly rigid coupling the
line-up of the magneto must be absolutely accurate. Another advantage of
the flexible coupling is that the vibration of the motor will not be as
fully transmitted to the armature shaft on the magneto as in case a
rigid coupling is used. This means prolonged life for the magneto.

The next best method of driving the magneto is by means of a gear keyed
to the armature shaft. When this method of driving is employed, great
care must be exercised in providing sufficient clearance between the
gear on the magneto and the driving gear. If there should be a tight
spot between these two gears it will react disadvantageously on the
magneto. The third available method is to drive the magneto by means of
a chain. This is the least desirable of the three methods and should be
resorted to only in case of absolute necessity. It is difficult to
provide sufficient clearance when using a chain without rendering the
timing less accurate and positive.

[Illustration: Fig. 64.--Wiring Diagrams of Berling Magneto Ignition
Systems.]

Fig. 64, A shows diagrammatically the circuit of the "D" type two-spark
independent magneto and the switch used with it. In position OFF the
primary winding of the magneto is short-circuited and in this position
the switch serves as an ordinary cut-out or grounding switch. In
position "1" the switch connects the magneto in such a way that it
operates as an ordinary single-spark magneto. In this position one end
of the secondary winding is grounded to the body of the motor. This is
the starting position. In this position of the switch the entire voltage
generated in the magneto is concentrated at one spark-plug instead of
being divided in half. With the motor turning over very slowly, as is
the case in starting, the full voltage generated by the magneto will
not in all cases be sufficient to bridge simultaneously two spark gaps,
but is amply sufficient to bridge one. Also, this position of the switch
tends to retard the ignition and should be used in starting to prevent
back-firing. With the switch in position "2" the magneto applies
ignition to both plugs in each cylinder simultaneously. This is the
normal running position.

