Fig. 64, B shows diagrammatically the circuit of the type "DD" BERLING
high-tension two-spark dual magneto. This type is recommended for
certain types of heavy-duty airplane motors, which it is impossible to
turn over fast enough to give the magneto sufficient speed to generate
even a single spark of volume great enough to ignite the gas in the
cylinder. The dual feature consists of the addition to the magneto of a
battery interrupter. The equipment consists of the magneto, coil and
special high-tension switch. The coil is intended to operate on six
volts. Either a storage battery or dry cells may be used.

With the switch in the OFF position, the magneto is grounded, and the
battery circuit is open. With the switch in the second or battery
position marked "BAT," one end of the secondary winding of the magneto
is grounded, and the magneto operates as a single-spark magneto
delivering high-tension current to the inside distributor, and the
battery circuit being closed the high-tension current from the coil is
delivered to the outside distributor. In this position the battery
current is supplied to one set of spark plugs, no matter how slowly the
motor is turned over, but as soon as the motor starts, the magneto
supplies current as a single-spark magneto to the other set of the
spark-plugs. After the engine is running, the switch should be thrown to
the position marked "MAG." The battery and coil are then disconnected,
and the magneto furnishes ignition to both plugs in each cylinder. This
is the normal running position. Either a non-vibrating coil type "N-1"
is furnished or a combined vibrating and non-vibrating coil type
"VN-1."


SETTING BERLING MAGNETO

The magneto may be set according to one of two different methods, the
selection of which is, to some extent, governed by the characteristics
of the engine, but largely due to the personal preference on the part of
the user. In the first method described below, the most advantageous
position of the piston for fully advanced ignition is determined in
relation to the extreme advanced position of the magneto. In this case,
the fully retarded ignition will not be a matter of selection, but the
timing range of the magneto is wide enough to bring the fully retarded
ignition after top-center position of the piston. The second method for
the setting of the magneto fixes the fully retarded position of the
magneto in relation to that position of the piston where fully retarded
ignition is desired. In this case, the extreme advance position of the
magneto will not always correspond with the best position of the piston
for fully advanced ignition, and the amount of advance the magneto
should have to meet ideal requirements in this respect must be
determined by experiment.

