The switch used with the independent type must be mounted in such a
manner that there will be a metallic connection between the frame of the
magneto and the metal portion of the switch.

It is advisable to use a separate battery, either storage or dry cells,
as a source of current for the dual equipment. Connecting to the same
battery that is used with the generator and other electrical equipment
may cause trouble, as a "ground" in this battery causes the coil to
overheat.


CARE AND MAINTENANCE


_Lubrication:_

Use only the very best of oil for the oil cups.

Put five drops of oil in the oil cup at the driving end of the magneto
for every fifty hours of actual running.

Put five drops of oil in the oil cup at the interrupter end of the
magneto, located at one side of the cam housing, for every hundred hours
of actual running.

Lubricate the embossed cams in the cam housing with a thin film of
vaseline every fifty hours of actual running. Wipe off all superfluous
vaseline. Never use oil in the interrupter. Do not lubricate any other
part of the interrupter.


_Adjusting the Interrupter:_

With the fibre lever in the center of one of the embossed cams, as at
Fig. 65, the opening between the platinum contacts should be not less
than .016" and not more than .020". The gauge riveted to the adjusting
wrench should barely be able to pass between the contacts when fully
open. The platinum contacts must be smoothed off with a very fine file.
When in closed position, the platinum contacts should make contact with
each other over their entire surfaces.

When inspecting the interrupter, make sure that the ground brush in the
back of the interrupter base is making good contact with the surface on
which it rubs.


_Cleaning the Distributor:_

The distributor block cover should be removed for inspection every
twenty-five hours of actual running and the carbon deposit from the
distributor finger-brush wiped off the distributor block by rubbing with
a rag or piece of waste dipped in gasoline or kerosene. The
high-tension terminal brush on the side of the magneto should also be
carefully inspected for proper tension.

