
LOCATING TROUBLE

Trouble in the ignition system is indicated by the motor "missing,"
stopping entirely, or by inability to start.

It is safe to assume that the trouble is not in the magneto, and the
carburetor, gasoline supply and spark-plugs should first be
investigated.

[Illustration: Fig. 65.--The Berling Magneto Breaker Box Showing Contact
Points Separated and Interruptor Lever on Cam.]

If the magneto is suspected, the first thing to do is to determine if it
will deliver a spark. To determine this, disconnect one of the
high-tension leads from the spark-plug in one of the cylinders and place
it so that there is approximately 1/16" between the terminal and the
cylinder frame.

Open the pet cocks on the other cylinders to prevent the engine from
firing and turn over the engine until the piston is approaching the end
of the compression stroke in the cylinder from which the cable has been
removed. Set the magneto in the advance position and rapidly rock the
engine over the top-center position, observing closely if a spark occurs
between the end of the high-tension cable and the frame.

If the magneto is of the dual type, the trouble may be either in the
magneto or in the battery or coil system, therefore disconnect the
battery and place the switch in the position marked "MAG." The magneto
will then operate as an independent magneto and should spark in the
proper manner. After this the battery system should be investigated. To
test the operation of the battery and coil, examine all connections,
making sure that they are clean and tight, and then with the switch, in
the "BAT," rock the piston slowly back and forth. If a type "VN-1" coil
is used, a shower of sparks should jump between the high-tension cable
terminal and the cylinder frame when the piston is in the correct
position for firing. If no spark occurs, remove the cover from the coil
and see that the vibrating tongue is free. If a type "N-1" coil is used,
a single spark will occur. The battery should furnish six volts when
connected to the coil, and this should also be verified.

