The Dixie magneto, shown at Fig. 66, operates on a different principle
than the rotary armature type. It is used on the Hall-Scott and other
aviation engines. In this magneto the rotating member consists of two
pieces of magnetic material separated by a non-magnetic center piece.
This member constitutes true rotating poles for the magnet and rotates
in a field structure, composed of two laminated field pieces, riveted
between two non-magnetic rings. The bearings for the rotating poles are
mounted in steel plates, which lie against the poles of the magnets.
When the magnet poles rotate, the magnetic lines of force from each
magnet pole are carried directly to the field pieces and through the
windings, without reversal through the mass of the rotating member and
with only a single air gap. There are no losses by flux reversal in the
rotating part, such as take place in other machines, and this is said
to account for the high efficiency of the instrument.

[Illustration: Fig. 68.--The Rotating Elements of the Dixie Magneto.]

And this "Mason Principle" involved in the operation of the Dixie is
simplified by a glance at the field structure, consisting of the
non-magnetic rings, assembled to which are the field pieces between
which the rotating poles revolve (see Fig. 68). Rotating between the
limbs of the magnets, these two pieces of magnetic material form true
extensions to the poles of the magnets, and are, in consequence,
_always_ of the _same_ polarity. It will be seen there is no reversal of
the magnetism through them, and consequently no eddy current or
hysteresis losses which are present in the usual rotor or inductor
types. The simplicity features of construction stand out prominently
here, in that there are no revolving windings, a detail entirely
differing from the orthodox high-tension instrument. This simplicity
becomes instantly apparent when it is found that the circuit breaker,
instead of revolving as it does in other types, is stationary and that
the whole breaker mechanism is exposed by simply turning the cover
spring aside and removing cover. This makes inspection and adjustment
particularly simple, and the fact that no special tool is necessary for
adjustment of the platinum points--an ordinary small screw-driver is the
whole "kit of tools" needed in the work of disassembling or
assembling--is a feature of some value.

