[Illustration: Fig. 69.--Suggestions for Adjusting and Dismantling Dixie
Magneto. A--Screw Driver Adjusts Contact Points. B--Distributor Block
Removed. C--Taking off Magnets. D--Showing How Easily Condenser and High
Tension Windings are Removed.]

With dust- and water-protecting casing removed, and one of the magnets
withdrawn, as in Fig. 69, the winding can be seen with its core resting
on the field pole pieces and the primary lead attached to its side. An
important feature of the high-tension winding is that the heads are of
insulating material, and there is not the tendency for the high-tension
current to jump to the side as in the ordinary armature type magneto.
The high-tension current is carried to the distributor by means of an
insulated block with a spindle, at one end of which is a spring brush
bearing directly on the winding, thus shortening the path of the
high-tension current and eliminating the use of rubber spools and
insulating parts. The moving parts of the magneto need never be
disturbed if the high-tension winding is to be removed. This winding
constitutes all of the magneto windings, no external spark coil being
necessary. The condenser is placed directly above the winding and is
easily removable by taking out two screws, instead of being placed in an
armature where it is inaccessible except to an expert, and where it
cannot be replaced except at the factory whence it emanated.


CARE OF THE DIXIE MAGNETO

The bearings of the magneto are provided with oil cups and a few drops
of light oil every 1,000 miles are sufficient. The breaker lever should
be lubricated every 1,000 miles with a drop of light oil, applied with a
tooth-pick. The proper distance between the platinum points when
separated should not exceed .020 or one-fiftieth of an inch. A gauge of
the proper size is attached to the screwdriver furnished with the
magneto. The platinum contacts should be kept clean and properly
adjusted. Should the contacts become pitted, a fine file should be used
to smooth them in order to permit them to come into perfect contact. The
distributor block should be removed occasionally and inspected for an
accumulation of carbon dust. The inside of the distributor block should
be cleaned with a cloth moistened with gasoline and then wiped dry with
a clean cloth. When replacing the block, care must be exercised in
pushing the carbon brush into the socket. Do not pull out the carbon
brushes in the distributor because you think there is not enough tension
on the small brass springs. In order to obtain the most efficient
results, the normal setting of the spark-plug points should not exceed
.025 of an inch, and it is advisable to have the gap just right before a
spark-plug is inserted.

