The spark-plug electrodes may be easily set by means of the gauge
attached to the screwdriver. _The setting of the spark-plug points is an
important function which is usually overlooked, with the result that the
magneto is blamed when it is not at fault._


TIMING OF THE DIXIE MAGNETO

[Illustration: Fig. 69A.--Sectional Views Outlining Construction of
Dixie Magneto with Compound Distributor for Eight-Cylinder Engine
Ignition.]

In order to obtain the utmost efficiency from the engine, the magneto
must be correctly timed to it. This operation is usually performed when
the magneto is fitted to the engine at the factory. The correct setting
may vary according to individuality of the engine, and some engines
may require an earlier setting in order to obtain the best results.
However, should the occasion arise to retime the magneto, the procedure
is as follows: Rotate the crank-shaft of the engine until one of the
pistons, preferably that of cylinder No. 1, is 1/16 of an inch ahead of
the end of the compression stroke. With the timing lever in full retard
position, the driving shaft of the magneto should be rotated in the
direction in which it will be driven. The circuit breaker should be
closely observed and when the platinum contact points are about to
separate, the drive gear or coupling should be secured to the drive
shaft of the magneto. Care should be taken not to alter the position of
the magneto shaft when tightening the nut to secure the gear or
coupling, after which the magneto should be secured to its base. Remove
the distributor block and determine which terminal of the block is in
contact with the carbon brush of the distributor finger and connect with
plug wire leading to No. 1 cylinder to this terminal. Connect the
remaining plug wires in turn according to the proper sequence of firing
of the cylinders. (See the wiring diagram for a typical six-cylinder
engine at Fig. 70.) A terminal on the end of the cover spring of the
magneto is provided for the purpose of connecting the wire leading to a
ground switch for stopping the engine.

