A special model or type of magneto is made for V engines which use a
compound distributor construction instead of the simple type on the
model illustrated and a different interior arrangement permits the
production of four sparks per revolution of the rotors. This makes it
possible to run the magneto slower than would be possible with the
two-spark form. The application of two compound distributor magnetos of
this type to a Thomas-Morse 135 horse-power motor of the eight-cylinder
V pattern is clearly shown at Fig. 71.

[Illustration: Fig. 70.--Wiring Diagram of Dixie Magneto Installation on
Hall-Scott Six-Cylinder 125 Horse-Power Aeronautic Motor.]


SPARK-PLUG DESIGN AND APPLICATION

[Illustration: Fig. 71.--How Magneto Ignition is Installed on
Thomas-Morse 135 Horse-Power Motor.]

With the high-tension system of ignition the spark is produced by a
current of high voltage jumping between two points which break the
complete circuit, which would exist otherwise in the secondary coil and
its external connections. The spark-plug is a simple device which
consists of two terminal electrodes carried in a suitable shell member,
which is screwed into the cylinder. Typical spark-plugs are shown in
section at Fig. 72 and the construction can be easily understood. The
secondary wire from the coil is attached to a terminal at the top of a
central electrode member, which is supported in a bushing of some form
of insulating material. The type shown at A employs a molded porcelain
as an insulator, while that depicted at B uses a bushing of mica. The
insulating bushing and electrode are housed in a steel body, which is
provided with a screw thread at the bottom, by which means it is screwed
into the combustion chamber.

[Illustration: Fig. 72.--Spark-Plug Types Showing Construction and
Arrangement of Parts.]

When porcelain is used as an insulating material it is kept from direct
contact with the metal portion by some form of yielding packing, usually
asbestos. This is necessary because the steel and porcelain have
different coefficients of expansion and some flexibility must be
provided at the joints to permit the materials to expand differently
when heated. The steel body of the plug which is screwed into the
cylinder is in metallic contact with it and carries sparking points
which form one of the terminals of the air gap over which the spark
occurs. The current entering at the top of the plug cannot reach the
ground, which is represented by the metal portion of the engine, until
it has traversed the full length of the central electrode and overcome
the resistance of the gap between it and the terminal point on the
shell. The porcelain bushing is firmly seated against the asbestos
packing by means of a brass screw gland which sets against a flange
formed on the porcelain, and which screws into a thread at the upper
portion of the plug body.

