The mica plug shown at B is somewhat simpler in construction than that
shown at A. The mica core which keeps the central electrode separated
from the steel body is composed of several layers of pure sheet mica
wound around the steel rod longitudinally, and hundreds of stamped steel
washers which are forced over this member and compacted under high
pressure with some form of a binding material between them. Porcelain
insulators are usually molded from high-grade clay and are approximately
of the shapes desired by the designers of the plug. The central
electrode may be held in place by mechanical means such as nuts,
packings, and a shoulder on the rod, as shown at A. Another method
sometimes used is to cement the electrode in place by means of some form
of fire-clay cement. Whatever method of fastening is used, it is
imperative that the joints be absolutely tight so that no gas can escape
at the time of explosion. Porcelain is the material most widely used
because it can be glazed so that it will not absorb oil, and it is
subjected to such high temperature in baking that it is not liable to
crack when heated.

The spark-plugs may be screwed into any convenient part of the
combustion chamber, the general practice being to install them in the
caps over the inlet valves, or in the side of the combustion chamber, so
the points will be directly in the path of the entering fresh gases from
the carburetor.

Other insulating materials sometimes used are glass, steatite (which is
a form of soapstone) and lava. Mica and porcelain are the two common
materials used because they give the best results. Glass is liable to
crack, while lava or the soapstone insulating bushings absorb oil. The
spark gap of the average plug is equal to about 1/32 of an inch for coil
ignition and 1/40 of an inch when used in magneto circuits. A simple
gauge for determining the gap setting is the thickness of an ordinary
visiting card for magneto plugs, or a space equal to the thickness of a
worn dime for a coil plug. The insulating bushings are made in a number
of different ways, and while details of construction vary, spark-plugs
do not differ essentially in design. The dimensions of the standardized
plug recommended by the S. A. E. are shown at Fig. 73.

