[Illustration: Fig. 73.--Standard Airplane Engine Plug Suggested by S.
A. E. Standards Committee.]

It is often desirable to have a water-tight joint between the
high-tension cable and the terminal screw on top of the insulating
bushing of the spark-plug, especially in marine applications. The plug
shown at C, Fig. 72, is provided with an insulating member or hood of
porcelain, which is secured by a clip in such a manner that it makes a
water-tight connection. Should the porcelain of a conventional form of
plug become covered with water or dirty oil, the high-tension current is
apt to run down this conducting material on the porcelain and reach the
ground without having to complete its circuit by jumping the air gap and
producing a spark. It will be evident that wherever a plug is exposed to
the elements, which is often the case in airplane service, that it
should be protected by an insulating hood which will keep the insulator
dry and prevent short circuiting of the spark. The same end can be
attained by slipping an ordinary rubber nipple over the porcelain
insulator of any conventional plug and bringing up one end over the
cable.


TWO-SPARK IGNITION

On most aviation engines, especially those having large cylinders, it is
sometimes difficult to secure complete combustion by using a
single-spark plug. If the combustion is not rapid the efficiency of the
engine will be reduced proportionately. The compressed charge in the
cylinder does not ignite all at once or instantaneously, as many assume,
but it is the strata of gas nearest the plug which is ignited first.
This in turn sets fire to consecutive layers of the charge until the
entire mass is aflame. One may compare the combustion of gas in the
gas-engine cylinder to the phenomenon which obtains when a heavy object
is thrown into a pool of still water. First a small circle is seen at
the point where the object has passed into the water, this circle in
turn inducing other and larger circles until the whole surface of the
pool has been agitated from the one central point. The method of
igniting the gas is very similar, as the spark ignites the circle of gas
immediately adjacent to the sparking point, and this circle in turn
ignites a little larger one concentric with it. The second circle of
flame sets fire to more of the gas, and finally the entire contents of
the combustion chamber are burning.

