While ordinarily combustion is sufficiently rapid with a single plug so
that the proper explosion is obtained at moderate engine speeds, if the
engine is working fast and the cylinders are of large capacity more
power may be obtained by setting fire to the mixture at two different
points instead of but one. This may be accomplished by using two
sparking-plugs in the cylinder instead of one, and experiments have
shown that it is possible to gain from twenty-five to thirty per cent.
in motor power at high speed with two-spark plugs, because the
combustion of gas is accelerated by igniting the gas simultaneously in
two places. The double-plug system on airplane engines is also a
safeguard, as in event of failure of one plug in the cylinder the other
would continue to fire the gas, and the engine will continue to function
properly.

In using magneto ignition some precautions are necessary relating to
wiring and also the character of the spark-plugs employed. The conductor
should be of good quality, have ample insulation, and be well protected
from accumulations of oil, which would tend to decompose rubber
insulation. It is customary to protect the wiring by running it through
the conduits of fiber or metal tubing lined with insulating material.
Multiple strand cables should be used for both primary and secondary
wiring, and the insulation should be of rubber at least 3/16 inch thick.

The spark-plugs commonly used for battery and coil ignition cannot
always be employed when a magneto is fitted. The current produced by the
mechanical generator has a greater amperage and more heat value than
that obtained from transformer coils excited by battery current. The
greater heat may burn or fuse the slender points used on some battery
plugs and heavier electrodes are needed to resist the heating effect of
the more intense arc. While the current has greater amperage it is not
of as high potential or voltage as that commonly produced by the
secondary winding of an induction coil, and it cannot overcome as much
of a gap. Manufacturers of magneto plugs usually set the spark points
about 1/64 of an inch apart. The most efficient magneto plug has a
plurality of points so that when the distance between one set becomes
too great the spark will take place between one of the other pairs of
electrodes which are not separated by so great an air space.

