[Illustration: Fig. 74.--Special Mica Plug for Aviation Engines.]


SPECIAL PLUGS FOR AIRPLANE WORK

Airplane work calls for special construction of spark-plugs, owing to
the high compression used in the engines and the fact that they are
operated on open throttle practically all the time, thus causing a great
deal of heat to be developed. The plug shown at Fig. 74 was recently
described in "The Automobile," and has been devised especially for
airplane engines and automobile racing power plants. The core C is built
up of mica washers, and has square shoulders. As mica washers of
different sizes may be used, and accurate machining, such as is
necessary with conical clamping surfaces, is not required, the plug can
be produced economically. The square shoulders of the core afford two
gasket seats, and when the core is clamped in the shell by means of
check nut E, it is accurately centered and a tight joint is formed. This
construction also makes a shorter plug than where conical fits are used,
thus improving the heat radiation through the stem. The lower end of the
shell is provided with a baffle plate O, which tends to keep the oil
away from the mica. There are perforations L in this baffle plate to
prevent burnt gases being pocketed behind the baffle plate and
pre-igniting the new charge. This construction also brings the firing
point out into the firing chamber of the engine, and has all the other
advantages of a closed-end plug. The stem P is made of brass or copper,
on account of their superior heat conductivity, and the electrode J is
swedged into the bottom of the stem, as shown at K, in a secure manner.

The shell is finned, as shown at G, to provide greater heat radiating
surface. There is also a fin F at the top of the stem, to increase the
radiation of heat from the stem and electrode. The top of this finned
portion is slightly countersunk, and the stem is riveted into same,
thereby reducing the possibility of leakage past the threads on the
stem. This finned portion is necked at A to take a slip terminal.

