The reason a lubricant is supplied to bearing points will be easily
understood if one considers that these elastic substances flow between
the close fitting surfaces, and by filling up the minute depressions in
the surfaces and covering the high spots act as a cushion which absorbs
the heat generated and takes the wear instead of the metallic bearing
surface. The closer the parts fit together the more fluid the lubricant
must be to pass between their surfaces, and at the same time it must
possess sufficient body so that it will not be entirely forced out by
the pressure existing between the parts.

[Illustration: Fig. 75.--Showing Use of Magnifying Glass to Demonstrate
that Apparently Smooth Metal Surfaces May Have Minute Irregularities
which Produce Friction.]

Oils should have good adhesive, as well as cohesive, qualities. The
former are necessary so that the oil film will cling well to the
surfaces of the bearings; the latter, so the oil particles will cling
together and resist the tendency to separation which exists all the time
the bearings are in operation. When used for gas-engine lubrication the
oil should be capable of withstanding considerable heat in order that it
will not be vaporized by the hot portions of the cylinder. It should
have sufficient cold test so that it will remain fluid and flow readily
at low temperature. Lubricants should be free from acid, or alkalies,
which tend to produce a chemical action with metals and result in
corrosion of the parts to which they are applied. It is imperative that
the oil be exactly the proper quality and nature for the purpose
intended and that it be applied in a positive manner. The requirements
may be briefly summarized as follows:

First--It must have sufficient body to prevent seizing of the parts to
which it is applied and between which it is depended upon to maintain an
elastic film, and yet it must not have too much viscosity, in order to
minimize the internal or fluid friction which exists between the
particles of the lubricant itself.

