Second--The lubricant must not coagulate or gum; must not injure the
parts to which it is applied, either by chemical action or by producing
injurious deposits, and it should not evaporate readily.

Third--The character of the work will demand that the oil should not
vaporize when heated or thicken to such a point that it will not flow
readily when cold.

Fourth--The oil must be free from acid, alkalies, animal or vegetable
fillers, or other injurious agencies.

Fifth--It must be carefully selected for the work required and should be
a good conductor of heat.


DERIVATION OF LUBRICANTS

The first oils which were used for lubricating machinery were obtained
from animal and vegetable sources, though at the present time most
unguents are of mineral derivation. Lubricants may exist as fluids,
semifluids, or solids. The viscosity will vary from light spindle or
dynamo oils, which have but little more body than kerosene, to the
heaviest greases and tallows. The most common solid employed as a
lubricant is graphite, sometimes termed "plumbago" or "black lead." This
substance is of mineral derivation.

The disadvantage of oils of organic origin, such as those obtained from
animal fats or vegetable substances, is that they will absorb oxygen
from the atmosphere, which causes them to thicken or become rancid.
Such oils have a very poor cold test, as they solidify at comparatively
high temperatures, and their flashing point is so low that they cannot
be used at points where much heat exists. In most animal oils various
acids are present in greater or less quantities, and for this reason
they are not well adapted for lubricating metallic surfaces which may be
raised high enough in temperature to cause decomposition of the oils.

Lubricants derived from the crude petroleum are called "Oleonaphthas"
and they are a product of the process of refining petroleum through
which gasoline and kerosene are obtained. They are of lower cost than
vegetable or animal oil, and as they are of non-organic origin, they do
not become rancid or gummy by constant exposure to the air, and they
will have no corrosive action on metals because they contain no
deleterious substances in chemical composition. By the process of
fractional distillation mineral oils of all grades can be obtained. They
have a lower cold and higher flash test and there is not the liability
of spontaneous combustion that exists with animal oils.

