The organic oils are derived from fatty substances, which are present in
the bodies of all animals and in some portions of plants. The general
method of extracting oil from animal bodies is by a rendering process,
which consists of applying sufficient heat to liquefy the oil and then
separating it from the tissue with which it is combined by compression.
The only oil which is used to any extent in gas-engine lubrication that
is not of mineral derivation is castor oil. This substance has been used
on high-speed racing automobile engines and on airplane power plants. It
is obtained from the seeds of the castor plant, which contain a large
percentage of oil.

Among the solid substances which may be used for lubricating purposes
may be mentioned tallow, which is obtained from the fat of animals, and
graphite and soapstone, which are of mineral derivation. Tallow is
never used at points where it will be exposed to much heat, though it
is often employed as a filler for greases used in transmission gearing
of autos. Graphite is sometimes mixed with oil and applied to cylinder
lubrication, though it is most often used in connection with greases in
the landing gear parts and for coating wires and cables of the airplane.
Graphite is not affected by heat, cold, acids, or alkalies, and has a
strong attraction for metal surfaces. It mixes readily with oils and
greases and increases their efficiency in many applications. It is
sometimes used where it would not be possible to use other lubricants
because of extremes of temperature.

The oils used for cylinder lubrication are obtained almost exclusively
from crude petroleum derived from American wells. Special care must be
taken in the selection of crude material, as every variety will not
yield oil of the proper quality to be used as a cylinder lubricant. The
crude petroleum is distilled as rapidly as possible with fire heat to
vaporize off the naphthas and the burning oils. After these vapors have
been given off superheated steam is provided to assist in distilling.
When enough of the light elements have been eliminated the residue is
drawn off, passed through a strainer to free it from grit and earthy
matters, and is afterwards cooled to separate the wax from it. This is
the dark cylinder oil and is the grade usually used for steam-engine
cylinders.

