
PROPERTIES OF CYLINDER OILS

The oil that is to be used in the gasoline engine must be of high
quality, and for that reason the best grades are distilled in a vacuum
that the light distillates may be separated at much lower temperatures
than ordinary conditions of distilling permit. If the degree of heat is
not high the product is not so apt to decompose and deposit carbon. If
it is desired to remove the color of the oil which is caused by free
carbon and other impurities it can be accomplished by filtering the oil
through charcoal. The greater the number of times the oil is filtered,
the lighter it will become in color. The best cylinder oils have flash
points usually in excess of 500 degrees F., and while they have a high
degree of viscosity at 100 degrees F. they become more fluid as the
temperature increases.

The lubricating oils obtained by refining crude petroleum may be divided
into three classes:

First--The natural oils of great body which are prepared for use by
allowing the crude material to settle in tanks at high temperature and
from which the impurities are removed by natural filtration. These oils
are given the necessary body and are free from the volatile substances
they contain by means of superheated steam which provides a source of
heat.

Second--Another grade of these natural oils which are filtered again at
high temperatures and under pressure through beds of animal charcoal to
improve their color.

Third--Pale, limpid oils, obtained by distillation and subsequent
chemical treatment from the residuum produced in refining petroleum to
obtain the fuel oils.

Authorities agree that any form of mixed oil in which animal and mineral
lubricants are combined should never be used in the cylinder of a gas
engine as the admixture of the lubricants does not prevent the
decomposition of the organic oil into the glycerides and fatty acids
peculiar to the fat used. In a gas-engine cylinder the flame tends to
produce more or less charring. The deposits of carbon will be much
greater with animal oils than with those derived from the petroleum base
because the constituents of a fat or tallow are not of the same volatile
character as those which comprise the hydro-carbon oils which will
evaporate or volatilize before they char in most instances.

