
FACTORS INFLUENCING LUBRICATION SYSTEM SELECTION

The suitability of oil for the proper and efficient lubrication of all
internal combustion engines is determined chiefly by the following
factors:

1. Type of cooling system (operating temperatures).

2. Type of lubricating system (method of applying oil to the moving
parts).

3. Rubbing speeds of contact surfaces.

Were the operating temperatures, bearing surface speeds and lubrication
systems identical, a single oil could be used in all engines with equal
satisfaction. The only change then necessary in viscosity would be that
due to climatic conditions. As engines are now designed, only three
grades of oil are necessary for the lubrication of all types with the
exception of Knight, air-cooled and some engines which run continuously
at full load. In the specification of engine lubricants the feature of
load carried by the engine should be carefully considered.

_Full Load Engines._

1. Marine.
2. Racing automobile.
3. Aviation.
4. Farm tractor.
5. Some stationary.

_Variable Load Engines._

1. Pleasure automobile.
2. Commercial vehicle.
3. Motor cycle.
4. Some stationary.

Of the forms outlined, the only one we have any immediate concern about
is the airplane power plant. The Platt & Washburn Refining Company, who
have made a careful study of the lubrication problem as applied to all
types of engines, have found a peculiar set of conditions to apply to
oiling high-speed constant-duty or "full-load" engines. Modern airplane
engines are designed to operate continuously at a fairly uniform high
rotative speed and at full load over long periods of time. As a sequence
to this heavy duty the operating temperatures are elevated. For the
sake of extreme lightness in weight of all parts, very thin alloy steel
aluminum or cast iron pistons are fitted and the temperature of the thin
piston heads at the center reaches anywhere between 600° and 1,400°
Fahr., as in automobile racing engines. Freely exposed to such intense
heat hydro-carbon oils are partially "cracked" into light and heavy
products or polymerized into solid hydro-carbons. From these facts it
follows that only heavy mineral oils of low carbon residue and of the
greatest chemical purity and stability should be used to secure good
lubrication. In all cases the oil should be sufficiently heavy to assure
the highest horse-power and fuel and oil economy compatible with perfect
lubrication, avoiding, at the same time, carbonization and ignition
failure. When aluminum pistons are used their superior heat-conducting
properties aid materially in reducing the rate of oil destruction.

