The extraordinary evolutions described by airplanes in flight make it a
matter of vital necessity to operate engines inclined at all angles to
the vertical as well as in an upside-down position. To meet this
situation lubricating systems have been elaborated so as to deliver an
abundance of oil where needed and to eliminate possible flooding of
cylinders. This is done by applying a full force feed system,
distributing oil under considerable pressure to all working parts.
Discharged through the bearings, the oil drains down to the suction side
of a second pump located in the bottom of the base chamber. This pump
being of greater capacity than the first prevents the accumulation of
oil in the crank-case, and forces it to a separate oil reservoir-cooler,
whence it flows back in rapid circulation to the pump feeding the
bearings. With this arrangement positive lubrication is entirely
independent of engine position. The lubricating system of the
Thomas-Morse aviation engines, which is shown at Fig. 76, is typical of
current practice.

[Illustration: Fig. 76.--Pressure Feed Oiling System of Thomas Aviation
Engine Includes Oil Cooling Means.]


GNOME TYPE ENGINES USE CASTOR OIL

The construction and operation of rotative radial cylinder engines
introduce additional difficulties of lubrication to those already
referred to and merit especial attention. Owing to the peculiar
alimentation systems of Gnome type engines, atomized gasoline mixed with
air is drawn through the hollow stationary crank-shaft directly into the
crank-case which it fills on the way to the cylinders. Therein lies the
trouble. Hydrocarbon oils are soon dissolved by the gasoline and washed
off, leaving the bearing surfaces without adequate protection and
exposed to instant wear and destruction. So castor oil is resorted to as
an indispensable but unfortunate compromise. Of vegetable origin, it
leaves a much more bulky carbon deposit in the explosion chambers than
does mineral oil and its great affinity for oxygen causes the formation
of voluminous gummy deposit in the crank-case. Engines employing it need
to be dismounted and thoroughly scraped out at frequent intervals. It is
advisable to use only unblended chemically pure castor oil in rotative
engines, first by virtue of its insolubility in gasoline and second
because its extra heavy body can resist the high temperature of
air-cooled cylinders.

