
HALL-SCOTT LUBRICATION SYSTEM

[Illustration: Fig. 77.--Diagram of Oiling System, Hall-Scott Type A 125
Horse-Power Engine.]

The oiling system of the Hall-Scott type A-5 125 horse-power engine is
clearly shown at Fig. 77. It is completely described in the instruction
book issued by the company from which the following extracts are
reproduced by permission. Crank-shaft, connecting rods and all other
parts within the crank-case and cylinders are lubricated directly or
indirectly by a force-feed oiling system. The cylinder walls and wrist
pins are lubricated by oil spray thrown from the lower end of connecting
rod bearings. This system is used only upon A-5 engines. Upon A-7a and
A-5a engines a small tube supplies oil from connecting rod bearing
directly upon the wrist pin. The oil is drawn from the strainer located
at the lowest portion of the lower crank-case, forced around the main
intake manifold oil jacket. From here it is circulated to the main
distributing pipe located along the lower left hand side of upper
crank-case. The oil is then forced directly to the lower side of
crank-shaft, through holes drilled in each main bearing cup. Leakage
from these main bearings is caught in scuppers placed upon the cheeks of
the crank-shafts furnishing oil under pressure to the connecting rod
bearings. A-7a and A-5a engines have small tubes leading from these
bearings which convey the oil under pressure to the wrist pins.

A bi-pass located at the front end of the distributing oil pipe can be
regulated to lessen or raise the pressure. By screwing the valve in, the
pressure will raise and more oil will be forced to the bearings. By
unscrewing, pressure is reduced and less oil is fed. A-7a and A-5a
engines have oil relief valves located just off of the main oil pump in
the lower crank-case. This regulates the pressure at all times so that
in cold weather there will be no danger of bursting oil pipes due to
excessive pressure. If it is found the oil pressure is not maintained at
a high enough level, inspect this valve. A stronger spring will not
allow the oil to bi-pass so freely, and consequently the pressure will
be raised; a weaker spring will bi-pass more oil and reduce the oil
pressure materially. Independent of the above-mentioned system, a small,
directly driven rotary oiler feeds oil to the base of each individual
cylinder. The supply of oil is furnished by the main oil pump located in
the lower crank-case. A small sight-feed regulator is furnished to
control the supply of oil from this oiler. This instrument should be
placed higher than the auxiliary oil distributor itself to enable the
oil to drain by gravity feed to the oiler. If there is no available
place with the necessary height in the front seat of plane, connect it
directly to the intake L fitting on the oiler in an upright position. It
should be regulated with full open throttle to maintain an oil level in
the glass, approximately half way.

