An oil pressure gauge is provided. This should be run to the pilot's
instrument board. The gauge registers the oil pressure upon the
bearings, also determining its circulation. Strict watch should be
maintained of this instrument by pilot, and if for any reason its hand
should drop to 0 the motor should be immediately stopped and the trouble
found before restarting engine. Care should be taken that the oil does
not work up into the gauge, as it will prevent the correct gauge
registering of oil pressure. The oil pressure will vary according to
weather conditions and viscosity of oil used. In normal weather, with
the engine properly warmed up, the pressure will register on the oil
gauge from 5 to 10 pounds when the engine is turning from 1,275 to 1,300
r. p. m. This does not apply to all aviation engines, however, as the
proper pressure advised for the Curtiss OX-2 motor is from 40 to 55
pounds at the gauge.

The oil sump plug is located at the lowest point of the lower
crank-case. This is a combination dirt, water and sediment trap. It is
easily removed by unscrewing. Oil is furnished mechanically to the
cam-shaft housing under pressure through a small tube leading from the
main distributing pipe at the propeller end of engine directly into the
end of cam-shaft housing. The opposite end of this housing is amply
relieved to allow the oil to rapidly flow down upon cam-shaft, magneto,
pinion-shaft, and crank-shaft gears, after which it returns to lower
crank-case. An outside overflow pipe is also provided to carry away the
surplus oil.


DRAINING OIL FROM CRANK-CASE

The oil strainer is placed at the lowest point of the lower crank-case.
This strainer should be removed after every five to eight hours running
of the engine and cleaned thoroughly with gasoline. It is also advisable
to squirt distillate up into the case through the opening where the
strainer has been removed. Allow this distillate to drain out thoroughly
before replacing the plug with strainer attached. Be sure gasket is in
place on plug before replacing. Pour new oil in through either of the
two breather pipes on exhaust side of motor. Be sure to replace strainer
screens if removed. If, through oversight, the engine does not receive
sufficient lubrication and begins to heat or pound, it should be stopped
immediately. After allowing engine to cool pour at least three gallons
of oil into oil sump. Fill radiator with water after engine has cooled.
Should there be apparent damage, the engine should be thoroughly
inspected immediately without further running. If no obvious damage has
been done, the engine should be given a careful examination at the
earliest opportunity to see that the running without oil has not burned
the bearings or caused other trouble.

