Oils best adapted for Hall-Scott engines have the following properties:
A flash test of not less than 400° F.; viscosity of not less than 75 to
85 taken at 21° F. with Saybolt's Universal Viscosimeter.

_Zeroline heavy duty oil_, manufactured by the Standard Oil Company of
California; also,

_Gargoyle mobile B oil_, manufactured by the Vacuum Oil Company, both
fulfill the above specifications. One or the other of these oils can be
obtained all over the world.

Monogram extra heavy is also recommended.


OIL SUPPLY BY CONSTANT LEVEL SPLASH SYSTEM

The splash system of lubrication that depends on the connecting rod to
distribute the lubricant is one of the most successful and simplest
forms for simple four- and six-cylinder vertical automobile engines, but
is not as well adapted to the oiling of airplane power plants for
reasons previously stated. If too much oil is supplied the surplus will
work past the piston rings and into the combustion chamber, where it
will burn and cause carbon deposits. Too much oil will also cause an
engine to smoke and an excess of lubricating oil is usually manifested
by a bluish-white smoke issuing from the exhaust.

A good method of maintaining a constant level of oil for the successful
application of the splash system is shown at Fig. 78. The engine base
casting includes a separate chamber which serves as an oil container and
which is below the level of oil in the crank-case. The lubricant is
drawn from the sump or oil container by means of a positive oil pump
which discharges directly into the engine case. The level is maintained
by an overflow pipe which allows all excess lubricant to flow back into
the oil container at the bottom of the cylinder. Before passing into the
pump again the oil is strained or filtered by a screen of wire gauze and
all foreign matter removed. Owing to the rapid circulation of the oil it
may be used over and over again for quite a period of time. The oil is
introduced directly into the crank-case by a breather pipe and the level
is indicated by a rod carried by a float which rises when the container
is replenished and falls when the available supply diminishes. It will
be noted that with such system the only apparatus required besides the
oil tank which is cast integral with the bottom of the crank-case is a
suitable pump to maintain circulation of oil. This member is always
positively driven, either by means of shaft and universal coupling or
direct gearing. As the system is entirely automatic in action, it will
furnish a positive supply of oil at all desired points, and it cannot be
tampered with by the inexpert because no adjustments are provided or
needed.

