
DRY CRANK-CASE SYSTEM BEST FOR AIRPLANE ENGINES

[Illustration: Fig. 78.--Sectional View of Typical Motor Showing Parts
Needing Lubrication and Method of Applying Oil by Constant Level Splash
System. Note also Water Jacket and Spaces for Water Circulation.]

In most airplane power plants it is considered desirable to supply the
oil directly to the parts needing it by suitable leads instead of
depending solely upon the distributing action of scoops on the
connecting rod big ends. A system of this nature is shown at Fig. 77.
The oil is carried in the crank-case, as is common practice, but the
normal oil level is below the point where it will be reached by the
connecting rod. It is drawn from the crank-case by a plunger pump which
directs it to a manifold leading directly to conductors which supply the
main journals. After the oil has been used on these points it drains
back into the bottom of the crank-case. An excess is provided which is
supplied to the connecting rod ends by passages drilled into the webs of
the crank-shaft and part way into the crank-pins as shown by the dotted
lines. The oil which is present at the connecting rod crank-pins is
thrown off by centrifugal force and lubricates the cylinder walls and
other internal parts. Regulating screws are provided so that the amount
of oil supplied the different points may be regulated at will. A relief
check valve is installed to take care of excess lubricant and to allow
any oil that does not pass back into the pipe line to overflow or
bi-pass into the main container.

[Illustration: Fig. 79.--Pressure Feed Oil-Supply System of Airplane
Power Plants has Many Good Features.]

A simple system of this nature is shown graphically in a phantom view of
the crank-case at Fig. 79, in which the oil passages are made specially
prominent. The oil is taken from a reservoir at the bottom of the engine
base by the usual form of gear oil pump and is supplied to a main feed
manifold which extends the length of the crank-case. Individual
conductors lead to the five main bearings, which in turn supply the
crank-pins by passages drilled through the crank-shaft web. In this
power plant the connecting rods are hollow section bronze castings and
the passage through the center of the connecting rod serves to convey
the lubricant from the crank-pins to the wrist-pins. The cylinder walls
are oiled by the spray of lubricant thrown off the revolving crank-shaft
by centrifugal force. Oil projection by the dippers on the connecting
rod ends from constant level troughs is unequal upon the cylinder walls
of the two-cylinder blocks of an eight- or twelve-cylinder V engine.
This gives rise, on one side of the engine, to under-lubrication, and,
on the other side, to over-lubrication, as shown at Fig. 80, A. This
applies to all modifications of splash lubricating systems.

