The loss through the water jacket of the average automobile power plant
is over 50 per cent. of the total fuel efficiency. This means that more
than half of the heat units available for power are absorbed and
dissipated by the cooling water. Another 16 per cent. is lost through
the exhaust valve, and but 33-1/3 per cent. of the heat units do useful
work. The great loss of heat through the cooling systems cannot be
avoided, as some method must be provided to keep the temperature of the
engine within proper bounds. It is apparent that the rapid combustion
and continued series of explosions would soon heat the metal portions of
the engine to a red heat if some means were not taken to conduct much of
this heat away. The high temperature of the parts would burn the
lubricating oil, even that of the best quality, and the piston and rings
would expand to such a degree, especially when deprived of oil, that
they would seize in the cylinder. This would score the walls, and the
friction which ensued would tend to bind the parts so tightly that the
piston would stick, bearings would be burned out, the valves would warp,
and the engine would soon become inoperative.

[Illustration: Fig. 81.--Operating Temperatures of Automobile Engine
Parts Useful as a Guide to Understand Airplane Power Plant Heat.]

The best temperature to secure efficient operation is one on which
considerable difference of opinion exists among engineers. The fact that
the efficiency of an engine is dependent upon the ratio of heat
converted into useful work compared to that generated by the explosion
of the gas is an accepted fact. It is very important that the engine
should not get too hot, and on the other hand it is equally vital that
the cylinders be not robbed of too much heat. The object of cylinder
cooling is to keep the temperature of the cylinder below the danger
point, but at the same time to have it as high as possible to secure
maximum power from the gas burned. The usual operating temperatures of
an automobile engine are shown at Fig. 81, and this can be taken as an
approximation of the temperatures apt to exist in an airplane engine of
conventional design as well when at ground level or not very high in the
air. The newer very high compression airplane engines in which
compressions of eight or nine atmospheres are used, or about 125 pounds
per square inch, will run considerably hotter than the temperatures
indicated.

