
COOLING SYSTEMS GENERALLY APPLIED

There are two general systems of engine cooling in common use, that in
which water is heated by the absorption of heat from the engine and then
cooled by air, and the other method in which the air is directed onto
the cylinder and absorbs the heat directly instead of through the medium
of water. When the liquid is employed in cooling it is circulated
through jackets which surround the cylinder casting and the water may be
kept in motion by two methods. The one generally favored is to use a
positive circulating pump of some form which is driven by the engine to
keep the water in motion. The other system is to utilize a natural
principle that heated water is lighter than cold liquid and that it will
tend to rise to the top of the cylinder when it becomes heated to the
proper temperature and cooled water takes its place at the bottom of the
water jacket.

Air-cooling methods may be by radiation or convection. In the former
case the effective outer surface of the cylinder is increased by the
addition of flanges machined or cast thereon, and the air is depended on
to rise from the cylinder as heated and be replaced by cooler air. This,
of course, is found only on stationary engines. When a positive air
draught is directed against the cylinder by means of the propeller slip
stream in an airplane, cooling is by convection and radiation both.
Sometimes the air draught may be directed against the cylinder walls by
some form of jacket which confines it to the heated portions of the
cylinder.


COOLING BY POSITIVE WATER CIRCULATION

[Illustration: Fig. 82.--Water Cooling of Salmson Seven-Cylinder Radial
Airplane Engine.]

A typical water-cooling system in which a pump is depended upon to
promote circulation of the cooling liquid is shown at Figs. 82 and 83.
The radiator is carried at the front end of the fuselage in most cases,
and serves as a combined water tank and cooler, but in some cases it is
carried at the side of the engine, as in Fig. 84, or attached to the
central portion of the aerofoil or wing structure. It is composed of an
upper and lower portion joined together by a series of pipes which may
be round and provided with a series of fins to radiate the heat, or
which may be flat in order to have the water pass through in thin sheets
and cool it more easily. Cellular or honeycomb coolers are composed of a
large number of bent tubes which will expose a large area of surface to
the cooling influence of the air draught forced through the radiator
either by the forward movement of the vehicle or by some type of fan.
The cellular and flat tube types have almost entirely displaced the
flange tube radiators which were formerly popular because they cool the
water more effectively, and may be made lighter than the tubular
radiator could be for engines of the same capacity.

