Some automobile engineers contend that the rapid water circulation
obtained by using a pump may cool the cylinders too much, and that the
temperature of the engine may be reduced so much that the efficiency
will be lessened. For this reason there is a growing tendency to use the
natural method of water circulation as the cooling liquid is supplied to
the cylinder jackets just below the boiling point and the water issues
from the jacket at the top of the cylinder after it has absorbed
sufficient heat to raise it just about to the boiling point.

As the water becomes heated by contact with the hot cylinder and
combustion-chamber walls it rises to the top of the water jacket, flows
to the cooler, where enough of the heat is absorbed to cause it to
become sensibly greater in weight. As the water becomes cooler, it falls
to the bottom of the radiator and it is again supplied to the water
jacket. The circulation is entirely automatic and continues as long as
there is a difference in temperature between the liquid in the water
spaces of the engine and that in the cooler. The circulation becomes
brisker as the engine becomes hotter and thus the temperature of the
cylinders is kept more nearly to a fixed point. With the thermosyphon
system the cooling liquid is nearly always at its boiling point, whereas
if the circulation is maintained by a pump the engine will become cooler
at high speed and will heat up more at low speed.

With the thermosyphon, or natural system of cooling, more water must be
carried than with the pump-maintained circulation methods. The water
spaces around the cylinders should be larger, the inlet and discharge
water manifolds should have greater capacity, and be free from sharp
corners which might impede the flow. The radiator must also carry more
water than the form used in connection with the pump because of the
brisker pump circulation which maintains the engine temperature at a
lower point. Consideration of the above will show why the pump system is
almost universally used in connection with airplane power plant cooling.

