
DIRECT AIR-COOLING METHODS

The earliest known method of cooling the cylinder of gas-engines was by
means of a current of air passed through a jacket which confined it
close to the cylinder walls and was used by Daimler on his first
gas-engine. The gasoline engine of that time was not as efficient as the
later form, and other conditions which materialized made it desirable to
cool the engine by water. Even as gasoline engines became more and more
perfected there has always existed a prejudice against air cooling,
though many forms of engines have been used, both in automobile and
aircraft applications where the air-cooling method has proven to be very
practical.

The simplest system of air cooling is that in which the cylinders are
provided with a series of flanges which increase the effective radiating
surface of the cylinder and directing an air-current from a fan against
the flanges to absorb the heat. This increase in the available radiating
surface of an air-cooled cylinder is necessary because air does not
absorb heat as readily as water and therefore more surface must be
provided that the excess heat be absorbed sufficiently fast to prevent
distortion of the cylinders. Air-cooling systems are based on a law
formulated by Newton, which is: "The rate for cooling for a body in a
uniform current of air is directly proportional to the speed of the air
current and the amount of radiating surface exposed to the cooling
effect."


AIR-COOLED ENGINE DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS

[Illustration: Fig. 85.--Anzani Testing His Five-Cylinder Air Cooled
Aviation Motor Installed in Bleriot Monoplane. Note Exposure of Flanged
Cylinders to Propeller Slip Stream.]

There are certain considerations which must be taken into account in
designing an air-cooled engine, which are often overlooked in those
forms cooled by water. Large valves must be provided to insure rapid
expulsion of the flaming exhaust gas and also to admit promptly the
fresh cool mixture from the carburetor. The valves of air-cooled engines
are usually placed in the cylinder-head, in order to eliminate any
pockets or sharp passages which would impede the flow of gas or retain
some of the products of combustion and their heat. When high power is
desired multiple-cylinder engines should be used, as there is a certain
limit to the size of a successful air-cooled cylinder. Much better
results are secured from those having small cubical contents because the
heat from small quantities of gas will be more quickly carried off than
from greater amounts. All successful engines of the aviation type which
have been air-cooled have been of the multiple-cylinder type.

