An air-cooled engine must be placed in the fuselage, as at Fig. 85, in
such a way that there will be a positive circulation of air around it
all the time that it is in operation. The air current may be produced by
the tractor screw at the front end of the motor, or by a suction or
blower fan attached to the crank-shaft as in the Renault engine or by
rotating the cylinders as in the Le Rhone and Gnome motors. Greater care
is required in lubrication of the air-cooled cylinders and only the best
quality of oil should be used to insure satisfactory oiling.

The combustion chambers must be proportioned so that distribution of
metal is as uniform as possible in order to prevent uneven expansion
during increase in temperature and uneven contraction when the cylinder
is cooled. It is essential that the inside walls of the combustion
chamber be as smooth as possible because any sharp angle or projection
may absorb sufficient heat to remain incandescent and cause trouble by
igniting the mixture before the proper time. The best grades of cast
iron or steel should be used in the cylinder and piston and the machine
work must be done very accurately so the piston will operate with
minimum friction in the cylinder. The cylinder bore should not exceed
4-1/2 or 5 inches and the compression pressure should never exceed 75
pounds absolute, or about five atmospheres, or serious overheating will
result.

As an example of the care taken in disposing of the exhaust gases in
order to obtain practical air-cooling, some cylinders are provided with
a series of auxiliary exhaust ports uncovered by the piston when it
reaches the end of its power stroke. The auxiliary exhaust ports open
just as soon as the full force of the explosion has been spent and a
portion of the flaming gases is discharged through the ports in the
bottom of the cylinder. Less of the exhaust gases remains to be
discharged through the regular exhaust member in the cylinder-head and
this will not heat the walls of the cylinder nearly as much as the
larger quantity of hot gas would. That the auxiliary exhaust port is of
considerable value is conceded by many designers of fixed and fan-shaped
air-cooled motors for airplanes.

