Among the advantages stated for direct air cooling, the greatest is the
elimination of cooling water and its cooling auxiliaries, which is a
factor of some moment, as it permits considerable reduction in
horse-power-weight ratio of the engine, something very much to be
desired. In the temperate zone, where the majority of airplanes are
used, the weather conditions change in a very few months from the warm
summer to the extreme cold winter, and when water-cooled systems are
employed it is necessary to add some chemical substance to the water to
prevent it from freezing. The substances commonly employed are
glycerine, wood alcohol, or a saturated solution of calcium chloride.
Alcohol has the disadvantage in that it vaporizes readily and must be
often renewed. Glycerine affects the rubber hose, while the calcium
chloride solution crystallizes and deposits salt in the radiator and
water pipes.

One of the disadvantages of an air-cooling method, as stated by those
who do not favor this system, is that engines cooled by air cannot be
operated for extended periods under constant load or at very high speed
without heating up to such a point that premature ignition of the charge
may result. The water-cooling systems, at the other hand, maintain the
temperature of the engine more nearly constant than is possible with an
air-cooled motor, and an engine cooled by water can be operated under
conditions of inferior lubrication or poor mixture adjustment that would
seriously interfere with proper and efficient cooling by air.

Air-cooled motors, as a rule, use less fuel than water-cooled engines,
because the higher temperature of the cylinder does not permit of a full
charge of gas being inspired on the intake stroke. As special care is
needed in operating an air-cooled engine to obtain satisfactory results
and because of the greater difficulty which obtains in providing proper
lubrication and fuel mixtures which will not produce undue heating, the
air-cooled system has but few adherents at the present time, and
practically all airplanes, with but very few exceptions, are provided
with water-cooled power plants. Those fitted with air-cooled engines are
usually short-flight types where maximum lightness is desired in order
to obtain high speed and quick climb. The water-cooled engines are best
suited for airplanes intended for long flights. The Gnome, Le Rhone and
Clerget engines are thoroughly practical and have been widely used in
France and England. These are rotary radial cylinder types. The Anzani
is a fixed cylinder engine used on training machines, while the Renault
is a V-type engine made in eight- and twelve-cylinder V forms that has
been used on reconnaissance and bombing airplanes with success. These
types will be fully considered in proper sequence.

