


CHAPTER VIII

Methods of Cylinder Construction--Block Castings--Influence on
Crank-Shaft Design--Combustion Chamber Design--Bore and Stroke
Ratio--Meaning of Piston Speed--Advantage of Off-Set Cylinders--
Valve Location of Vital Import--Valve Installation Practice--
Valve Design and Construction--Valve Operation--Methods of
Driving Cam-Shaft--Valve Springs--Valve Timing--Blowing Back--
Lead Given Exhaust Valve--Exhaust Closing, Inlet Opening--
Closing the Inlet Valve--Time of Ignition--How an Engine Is
Timed--Gnome "Monosoupape" Valve Timing--Springless Valves--Four
Valves per Cylinder.


The improvements noted in the modern internal combustion motors have
been due to many conditions. The continual experimenting by leading
mechanical minds could have but one ultimate result. The parts of the
engines have been lightened and strengthened, and greater power has been
obtained without increasing piston displacement. A careful study has
been made of the many conditions which make for efficient motor action,
and that the main principles are well recognized by all engineers is
well shown by the standardization of design noted in modern power
plants. There are many different methods of applying the same principle,
and it will be the purpose of this chapter to define the ways in which
the construction may be changed and still achieve the same results. The
various components may exist in many different forms, and all have their
advantages and disadvantages. That all methods are practical is best
shown by the large number of successful engines which use radically
different designs.


METHODS OF CYLINDER CONSTRUCTION

One of the most important parts of the gasoline engine and one that has
material bearing upon its efficiency is the cylinder unit. The cylinders
may be cast individually, or in pairs, and it is possible to make all
cylinders a unit or block casting. Some typical methods of cylinder
construction are shown in accompanying illustrations. The appearance of
individual cylinder castings may be ascertained by examination of the
Hall-Scott airplane engine. Air-cooled engine cylinders are always of
the individual pattern.

