It is common practice to cast the water jackets integral with the
cylinders, if cast iron or aluminum is used, and this is also the most
economical method of applying it because it gives good results in
practice. An important detail is that the water spaces must be
proportioned so that they are equal around the cylinders whether these
members are cast individually, in pairs, threes or fours. When cylinders
are cast in block form it is good practice to leave a large opening in
the jacket wall which will assist in supporting the core and make for
uniform water space. It will be noticed that the casting shown at Fig.
86 has a large opening in the side of the cylinder block. These openings
are closed after the interior of the casting is thoroughly cleaned of
all sand, core wire, etc., by brass, cast iron or aluminum plates. These
also have particular value in that they may be removed after the motor
has been in use, thus permitting one to clean out the interior of the
water jacket and dispose of the rust, sediment, and incrustation which
are always present after the engine has been in active service for a
time.

Among the advantages claimed for the practice of casting cylinders in
blocks may be mentioned compactness, lightness, rigidity, simplicity of
water piping, as well as permitting the use of simple forms of inlet and
exhaust manifolds. The light weight is not only due to the reduction of
the cylinder mass but because the block construction permits one to
lighten the entire motor. The fact that all cylinders are cast together
decreases vibration, and as the construction is very rigid, disalignment
of working parts is practically eliminated. When inlet and exhaust
manifolds are cored in the block casting, as is sometimes the case, but
one joint is needed on each of these instead of the multiplicity of
joints which obtain when the cylinders are individual castings. The
water piping is also simplified. In the case of a four-cylinder block
motor but two pipes are used; one for the water to enter the cylinder
jacket, the other for the cooling liquid to discharge through.

