
INFLUENCE ON CRANK-SHAFT DESIGN

[Illustration: Fig. 87.--Twin-Cylinder Block of Sturtevant Airplane
Engine is Cast of Aluminum, and Has Removable Cylinder Head.]

The method of casting the cylinders has a material influence on the
design of the crank-shaft as will be shown in proper sequence. When four
cylinders are combined in one block it is possible to use a two-bearing
crank-shaft. Where cylinders are cast in pairs a three-bearing
crank-shaft is commonly supplied, and when cylinders are cast as
individual units it is thought necessary to supply a five-bearing
crank-shaft, though sometimes shafts having but three journals are used
successfully. Obviously the shafts must be stronger and stiffer to
withstand the stresses imposed if two supporting bearings are used than
if a larger number are employed. In this connection it may be stated
that there is less difficulty in securing alignment with a lesser number
of bearings and there is also less friction. On the other hand, the
greater the number of points of support a crank-shaft has the lighter
the webs can be made and still have requisite strength.


COMBUSTION CHAMBER DESIGN

[Illustration: Fig. 88.--Aluminum Cylinder Pair Casting of Thomas 150
Horse-Power Airplane Engine is of the L Head Type.]

Another point of importance in the design of the cylinder, and one which
has considerable influence upon the power developed, is the shape of the
combustion chamber. The endeavor of designers is to obtain maximum power
from a cylinder of certain proportions, and the greater energy obtained
without increasing piston displacement or fuel consumption the higher
the efficiency of the motor. To prevent troubles due to pre-ignition it
is necessary that the combustion chamber be made so that there will be
no roughness, sharp corners, or edges of metal which may remain
incandescent when heated or which will serve to collect carbon deposits
by providing a point of anchorage. With the object of providing an
absolutely clean combustion chamber some makers use a separable head
unit to their twin cylinder castings, such as shown at Fig. 87 and Fig.
88. These permit one to machine the entire interior of the cylinder and
combustion chamber. The relation of valve location and combustion
chamber design will be considered in proper sequence. These cylinders
are cast of aluminum, instead of cast iron, as is customary, and are
provided with steel or cast iron cylinder liners forced in the soft
metal casting bores.

