
BORE AND STROKE RATIO

A question that has been a vexed one and which has been the subject of
considerable controversy is the proper proportion of the bore to the
stroke. The early gas engines had a certain well-defined bore to stroke
ratio, as it was usual at that time to make the stroke twice as long as
the bore was wide, but this cannot be done when high speed is desired.
With the development of the present-day motor the stroke or piston
travel has been gradually shortened so that the relative proportions of
bore and stroke have become nearly equal. Of late there seems to be a
tendency among designers to return to the proportions which formerly
obtained, and the stroke is sometimes one and a half or one and
three-quarter times the bore.

Engines designed for high speed should have the stroke not much longer
than the diameter of the bore. The disadvantage of short-stroke engines
is that they will not pull well at low speeds, though they run with
great regularity and smoothness at high velocity. The long-stroke engine
is much superior for slow speed work, and it will pull steadily and with
increasing power at low speed. It was formerly thought that such engines
should never turn more than a moderate number of revolutions, in order
not to exceed the safe piston speed of 1,000 feet per minute. This old
theory or rule of practice has been discarded in designing high
efficiency automobile racing and aviation engines, and piston speeds
from 2,500 to 3,000 feet per minute are sometimes used, though the
average is around 2,000 feet per minute. While both short- and
long-stroke motors have their advantages, it would seem desirable to
average between the two. That is why a proportion of four to five or six
seems to be more general than that of four to seven or eight, which
would be a long-stroke ratio. Careful analysis of a number of foreign
aviation motors shows that the average stroke is about 1.2 times the
bore dimensions, though some instances were noted where it was as high
as 1.7 times the bore.

