
MEANING OF PISTON SPEED

The factor which limits the stroke and makes the speed of rotation so
dependent upon the travel of the piston is piston speed. Lubrication is
the main factor which determines piston speed, and the higher the rate
of piston travel the greater care must be taken to insure proper oiling.
Let us fully consider what is meant by piston speed.

Assume that a motor has a piston travel or stroke of six inches, for the
sake of illustration. It would take two strokes of the piston to cover
one foot, or twelve inches, and as there are two strokes to a revolution
it will be seen that this permits of a normal speed of 1,000 revolutions
per minute for an engine with a six-inch stroke, if one does not exceed
1,000 feet per minute. If the stroke was only four inches, a normal
speed of 1,500 revolutions per minute would be possible without
exceeding the prescribed limit. The crank-shaft of a small engine,
having three-inch stroke, could turn at a speed of 2,000 revolutions per
minute without danger of exceeding the safe speed limit. It will be seen
that the longer the stroke the slower the speed of the engine, if one
desires to keep the piston speed within the bounds as recommended, but
modern practice allows of greatly exceeding the speeds formerly thought
best.


ADVANTAGES OF OFF-SET CYLINDERS

[Illustration: Fig. 90.--Cross Section of Austro-Daimler Engine, Showing
Offset Cylinder Construction. Note Applied Water Jacket and Peculiar
Valve Action.]

Another point upon which considerable difference of opinion exists
relates to the method of placing the cylinder upon the crank-case--i.e.,
whether its center line should be placed directly over the center of the
crank-shaft, or to one side of center. The motor shown at Fig. 90 is an
off-set type, in that the center line of the cylinder is a little to
one side of the center of the crank-shaft. Diagrams are presented at
Fig. 91 which show the advantages of off-set crank-shaft construction.
The view at A is a section through a simple motor with the conventional
cylinder placing, the center line of both crank-shaft and cylinder
coinciding. The view at B shows the cylinder placed to one side of
center so that its center line is distinct from that of the crank-shaft
and at some distance from it. The amount of off-set allowed is a point
of contention, the usual amount being from fifteen to twenty-five per
cent. of the stroke. The advantages of the off-set are shown at Fig. 91,
C. If the crank turns in direction of the arrow there is a certain
resistance to motion which is proportional to the amount of energy
exerted by the engine and the resistance offered by the load. There are
two thrusts acting against the cylinder wall to be considered, that due
to explosion or expansion of the gas, and that which resists the motion
of the piston. These thrusts may be represented by arrows, one which
acts directly in a vertical direction on the piston top, the other
along a straight line through the center of the connecting rod. Between
these two thrusts one can draw a line representing a resultant force
which serves to bring the piston in forcible contact with one side of
the cylinder wall, this being known as side thrust. As shown at C, the
crank-shaft is at 90 degrees, or about one-half stroke, and the
connecting rod is at 20 degrees angle. The shorter connecting rod would
increase the diagonal resultant and side thrusts, while a longer one
would reduce the angle of the connecting rod and the side thrust of the
piston would be less. With the off-set construction, as shown at D, it
will be noticed that with the same connecting-rod length as shown at C
and with the crank-shaft at 90 degrees of the circle that the
connecting-rod angle is 14 degrees and the side thrust is reduced
proportionately.

