[Illustration: Fig. 91.--Diagrams Demonstrating Advantages of Offset
Crank-Shaft Construction.]

Another important advantage is that greater efficiency is obtained from
the explosion with an off-set crank-shaft, because the crank is already
inclined when the piston is at top center, and all the energy imparted
to the piston by the burning mixture can be exerted directly into
producing a useful turning effort. When a cylinder is placed directly on
a line with the crank-shaft, as shown at A, it will be evident that some
of the force produced by the expansion of the gas will be exerted in a
direct line and until the crank moves the crank throw and connecting rod
are practically a solid member. The pressure which might be employed in
obtaining useful turning effort is wasted by causing a direct pressure
upon the lower half of the main bearing and the upper half of the
crank-pin bushing.

Very good and easily understood illustrations showing advantages of the
off-set construction are shown at E and F. This is a bicycle
crank-hanger. It is advanced that the effort of the rider is not as well
applied when the crank is at position E as when it is at position F.
Position E corresponds to the position of the parts when the cylinder is
placed directly over the crank-shaft center. Position F may be compared
to the condition which is present when the off-set cylinder construction
is used.


VALVE LOCATION OF VITAL IMPORT

It has often been said that a chain is no stronger than its weakest
link, and this is as true of the explosive motor as it is of any other
piece of mechanism. Many motors which appeared to be excellently
designed and which were well constructed did not prove satisfactory
because some minor detail or part had not been properly considered by
the designer. A factor having material bearing upon the efficiency of
the internal combustion motor is the location of the valves and the
shape of the combustion chamber which is largely influenced by their
placing. The fundamental consideration of valve design is that the gases
be admitted and discharged from the cylinder as quickly as possible in
order that the speed of gas flow will not be impeded and produce back
pressure. This is imperative in obtaining satisfactory operation in any
form of motor. If the inlet passages are constricted the cylinder will
not fill with explosive mixture promptly, whereas if the exhaust gases
are not fully expelled the parts of the inert products of combustion
retained dilute the fresh charge, making it slow burning and causing
lost power and overheating. When an engine employs water as a cooling
medium this substance will absorb the surplus heat readily, and the
effects of overheating are not noticed as quickly as when air-cooled
cylinders are employed. Valve sizes have a decided bearing upon the
speed of motors and some valve locations permit the use of larger
members than do other positions.

