While piston velocity is an important factor in determinations of power
output, it must be considered from the aspect of the wear produced upon
the various parts of the motor. It is evident that engines which run
very fast, especially of high power, must be under a greater strain than
those operating at lower speeds. The valve-operating mechanism is
especially susceptible to the influence of rapid movement, and the
slower the engine the longer the parts will wear and the more reliable
the valve action.

[Illustration: Fig. 92.--Diagram Showing Forms of Cylinder Demanded by
Different Valve Placings. A--T Head Type, Valves on Opposite Sides. B--L
Head Cylinder, Valves Side by Side. C--L Head Cylinder, One Valve in
Head, Other in Pocket. D--Inlet Valve Over Exhaust Member, Both in Side
Pocket. E--Valve-in-the-Head Type with Vertical Valves. F--Inclined
Valves Placed to Open Directly into Combustion Chamber.]

As will be seen by reference to the accompanying illustration, Fig. 92,
there are many ways in which valves may be placed in the cylinder. Each
method outlined possesses some point of advantage, because all of the
types illustrated are used by reputable automobile manufacturers. The
method outlined at Fig. 92, A, is widely used, and because of its shape
the cylinder is known as the "T" form. It is approved for automobile use
for several reasons, the most important being that large valves can be
employed and a well-balanced and symmetrical cylinder casting obtained.
Two independent cam-shafts are needed, one operating the inlet valves,
the other the exhaust members. The valve-operating mechanism can be very
simple in form, consisting of a plunger actuated by the cam which
transmits the cam motion to the valve-stem, raising the valve as the cam
follower rides on the point of the cam. Piping may be placed without
crowding, and larger manifolds can be fitted than in some other
constructions. This has special value, as it permits the use of an
adequate discharge pipe on the exhaust side with its obvious advantages.
This method of cylinder construction is never found on airplane engines
because it does not permit of maximum power output.

