On the other hand, if considered from a viewpoint of actual heat
efficiency, it is theoretically the worst form of combustion chamber.
This disadvantage is probably compensated for by uniformity of expansion
of the cylinder because of balanced design. The ignition spark-plug may
be located directly over the inlet valve in the path of the incoming
fresh gases, and both valves may be easily removed and inspected by
unscrewing the valve caps without taking off the manifolds.

The valve installation shown at C is somewhat unusual, though it
provides for the use of valves of large diameter. Easy charging is
insured because of the large inlet valve directly in the top of the
cylinder. Conditions may be reversed if necessary, and the gases
discharged through this large valve. Both methods are used, though it
would seem that the free exhaust provided by allowing the gases to
escape directly from the combustion chamber through the overhead valve
to the exhaust manifold would make for more power. The method outlined
at Fig. 92, F and at Fig. 90 is one that has been widely employed on
large automobile racing motors where extreme power is required, as well
as in engines constructed for aviation service. The inclination of the
valves permits the use of large valves, and these open directly into the
combustion chamber. There are no pockets to retain heat or dead gas, and
free intake and outlet of gas is obtained. This form is quite
satisfactory from a theoretical point of view because of the almost
ideal combustion chamber form. Some difficulty is experienced, however,
in properly water-jacketing the valve chamber which experience has shown
to be necessary if the engine is to have high power.

The motor shown at Fig. 92, B and Fig. 88 employs cylinders of the "L"
type. Both valves are placed in a common extension from the combustion
chamber, and being located side by side both are actuated from a common
cam-shaft. The inlet and exhaust pipes may be placed on the same side of
the engine and a very compact assemblage is obtained, though this is
optional if passages are cored in the cylinder pairs to lead the gases
to opposite sides. The valves may be easily removed if desired, and the
construction is fairly good from the viewpoint of both foundry man and
machinist. The chief disadvantage is the limited area of the valves and
the loss of heat efficiency due to the pocket. This form of combustion
chamber, however, is more efficient than the "T" head construction,
though with the latter the use of larger valves probably compensates for
the greater heat loss. It has been stated as an advantage of this
construction that both manifolds can be placed at the same side of the
engine and a compact assembly secured. On the other hand, the
disadvantage may be cited that in order to put both pipes on the same
side they must be of smaller size than can be used when the valves are
oppositely placed. The "L" form cylinder is sometimes made more
efficient if but one valve is placed in the pocket while the other is
placed over it. This construction is well shown at Fig. 92, D and is
found on Anzani motors.

