[Illustration: Fig. 93.--Sectional View of Engine Cylinder Showing Valve
and Cage Installation.]

The method of valve application shown at Fig. 87 is an ingenious method
of overcoming some of the disadvantages inherent with valve-in-the-head
motors. In the first place it is possible to water-jacket the valves
thoroughly, which is difficult to accomplish when they are mounted in
cages. The water circulates directly around the walls of the valve
chambers, which is superior to a construction where separate cages are
used, as there are two thicknesses of metal with the latter, that of the
valve-cage proper and the wall of the cylinder. The cooling medium is in
contact only with the outer wall, and as there is always a loss of heat
conductivity at a joint it is practically impossible to keep the
exhaust valves and their seats at a uniform temperature. The valves may
be of larger size without the use of pockets when seating directly in
the head. In fact, they could be equal in diameter to almost half the
bore of the cylinder, which provides an ideal condition of charge
placement and exhaust. When valve grinding is necessary the entire head
is easily removed by taking off six nuts and loosening inlet manifold
connections, which operation would be necessary even if cages were
employed, as in the engine shown at Fig. 93.

[Illustration: Fig. 94.--Diagrams Showing How Gas Enters Cylinder
Through Overhead Valves and Other Types. A--Tee Head Cylinder. B--L Head
Cylinder. C--Overhead Valve.]

[Illustration: Fig. 95.--Conventional Methods of Operating Internal
Combustion Motor Valves.]

At Fig. 94, A and B, a section through a typical "L"-shaped cylinder is
depicted. It will be evident that where a pocket construction is
employed, in addition to its faculty for absorbing heat, the passage of
gas would be impeded. For example, the inlet gas rushing in through the
open valve would impinge sharply upon the valve-cap or combustion head
directly over the valve and then must turn at a sharp angle to enter the
combustion chamber and then at another sharp angle to fill the
cylinders. The same conditions apply to the exhaust gases, though they
are reversed. When the valve-in-the-head type of cylinder is employed,
as at C, the only resistance offered the gas is in the manifold. As far
as the passage of the gases in and out of the cylinder is concerned,
ideal conditions obtain. It is claimed that valve-in-the-head motors are
more flexible and responsive than other forms, but the construction has
the disadvantage in that the valves must be opened through a rather
complicated system of push rods and rocker arms instead of the simpler
and direct plunger which can be used with either the "T" or "L" head
cylinders. This is clearly outlined in the illustrations at Fig. 95,
where A shows the valve in the head-operating mechanism necessary if the
cam-shaft is carried at the cylinder base, while B shows the most direct
push-rod action obtained with "T" or "L" head cylinder placing.

