[Illustration: Fig. 96.--Examples of Direct Valve Actuation by Overhead
Cam-Shaft. A--Mercedes. B--Hall-Scott. C--Wisconsin.]

[Illustration: Fig. 97.

CENSORED]

[Illustration: Fig. 98.

CENSORED]

The objection can be easily met by carrying the cam-shaft above the
cylinders and driving it by means of gearing. The types of engine
cylinders using this construction are shown at Fig. 96, and it will be
evident that a positive and direct valve action is possible by following
the construction originated by the Mercedes (German) aviation engine
designers and outlined at A. The other forms at B and C are very clearly
adaptations of this design. The Hall-Scott engine at Fig. 97 is depicted
in part section and no trouble will be experienced in understanding the
bevel pinion and gear drive from the crank-shaft to the overhead
cam-shaft through a vertical counter-shaft. A very direct valve action
is used in the Duesenberg engines, one of which is shown in part section
at Fig. 98. The valves are parallel with the piston top and are actuated
by rocker arms, one end of which bears against the valve stem, and the
other rides the cam-shaft.

[Illustration: Fig. 99.--Sectional Views Showing Arrangement of Novel
Concentric Valve Arrangement Devised by Panhard for Aerial Engines.]

The form shown at Fig. 99 shows an ingenious application of the
valve-in-the-head idea which permits one to obtain large valves. It has
been used on some of the Panhard aviation engines and on the American
Aeromarine power plants. The inlet passage is controlled by the sliding
sleeve which is hollow and slotted so as to permit the inlet gases to
enter the cylinder through the regular type poppet valve which seats in
the exhaust sleeve. When the exhaust valve is operated by the tappet rod
and rocker arm the intake valve is also carried down with it. The
intake gas passage is closed, however, and the burned gases are
discharged through the large annular passage surrounding the sleeve.
When the inlet valve leaves its seat in the sleeve the passage of cool
gas around the sleeve keeps the temperature of both valves to a low
point and the danger of warping is minimized. A dome-shaped combustion
chamber may be used, which is an ideal form in conserving heat
efficiency, and as large valves may be installed the flow of both fresh
and exhaust gases may be obtained with minimum resistance. The intake
valve is opened by a small auxiliary rocker arm which is lifted when the
cam follower rides into the depression in the cam by the action of the
strong spring around the push rod. When the cam follower rides on the
high point the exhaust sleeve is depressed from its seat against the
cylinder. By using a cam having both positive and negative profiles, a
single rod suffices for both valves because of its push and pull action.

