
VALVE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

Valve dimensions are an important detail to be considered and can be
determined by several conditions, among which may be cited method of
installation, operating mechanism, material employed, engine speed
desired, manner of cylinder cooling and degree of lift desired. A review
of various methods of valve location has shown that when the valves are
placed directly in the head we can obtain the ideal cylinder form,
though larger valves may be used if housed in a separate pocket, as
afforded by the "T" head construction. The method of operation has much
to do with the size of the valves. For example, if an automatic inlet
valve is employed it is good practice to limit the lift and obtain the
required area of port opening by augmenting the diameter. Because of
this a valve of the automatic type is usually made twenty per cent.
larger than one mechanically operated. When both are actuated by cam
mechanism, as is now common practice, they are usually made the same
size and are interchangeable, which greatly simplifies manufacture. The
relation of valve diameter to cylinder bore is one that has been
discussed for some time by engineers. The writer's experience would
indicate that they should be at least half the bore, if possible. While
the mushroom type or poppet valve has become standard and is the most
widely used form at the present time, there is some difference of
opinion among designers as to the materials employed and the angle of
the seat. Most valves have a bevel seat, though some have a flat
seating. The flat seat valve has the distinctive advantage of providing
a clear opening with lesser lift, this conducing to free gas flow. It
also has value because it is silent in operation, but the disadvantage
is present that best material and workmanship must be used in their
construction to obtain satisfactory results. As it can be made very
light it is particularly well adapted for use as an automatic inlet
valve. Among other disadvantages cited is the claim that it is more
susceptible to derangement, owing to the particles of foreign matter
getting under the seat. With a bevel seat it is argued that the foreign
matter would be more easily dislodged by the gas flow, and that the
valve would close tighter because it is drawn positively against the
bevel seat.

