Several methods of valve construction are the vogue, the most popular
form being the one-piece type; those which are composed of a head of one
material and stem of another are seldom used in airplane engines because
they are not reliable. In the built-up construction the head is usually
of high nickel steel or cast iron, which metals possess good
heat-resisting qualities. Heads made of these materials are not likely
to warp, scale, or pit, as is sometimes the case when ordinary grades of
machinery steel are used. The cast-iron head construction is not popular
because it is often difficult to keep the head tight on the stem. There
is a slight difference in expansion ratio between the head and the stem,
and as the stem is either screwed or riveted to the cast-iron head the
constant hammering of the valve against its seat may loosen the joint.
As soon as the head is loose on the stem the action of the valve becomes
erratic. The best practice is to machine the valves from tungsten steel
forgings. This material has splendid heat-resisting qualities and will
not pit or become scored easily. Even the electrically welded head to
stem types which are used in automobile engines are not looked upon with
favor in the aviation engine. Valve stem guides and valve stems must be
machined very accurately to insure correct action. The usual practice in
automobile engines is shown at Fig. 100.

[Illustration: Fig. 100.--Showing Clearance Allowed Between Valve Stem
and Valve Stem Guide to Secure Free Action.]


VALVE OPERATION

The methods of valve operation commonly used vary according to the type
of cylinder construction employed. In all cases the valves are lifted
from their seats by cam-actuated mechanism. Various forms of
valve-lifting cams are shown at Fig. 101. As will be seen, a cam
consists of a circle to which a raised, approximately triangular member
has been added at one point. When the cam follower rides on the circle,
as shown at Fig. 102, there is no difference in height between the cam
center and its periphery and there is no movement of the plunger. As
soon as the raised portion of the cam strikes the plunger it will lift
it, and this reciprocating movement is transmitted to the valve stem by
suitable mechanical connections.

