[Illustration: Fig. 101.--Forms of Valve-Lifting Cams Generally
Employed. A--Cam Profile for Long Dwell and Quick Lift. B--Typical Inlet
Cam Used with Mushroom Type Follower. C--Average Form of Cam.
D--Designed to Give Quick Lift and Gradual Closing.]

The cam forms outlined at Fig. 101 are those commonly used. That at A is
used on engines where it is desired to obtain a quick lift and to keep
the valve fully opened as long as possible. It is a noisy form, however,
and is not very widely employed. That at B is utilized more often as an
inlet cam while the profile shown at C is generally depended on to
operate exhaust valves. The cam shown at D is a composite form which has
some of the features of the other three types. It will give the quick
opening of form A, the gradual closing of form B, and the time of
maximum valve opening provided by cam profile C.

[Illustration: Fig. 102.--Showing Principal Types of Cam Followers which
Have Received General Application.]

The various types of valve plungers used are shown at Fig. 102. That
shown at A is the simplest form, consisting of a simple cylindrical
member having a rounded end which follows the cam profile. These are
sometimes made of square stock or kept from rotating by means of a key
or pin. A line contact is possible when the plunger is kept from
turning, whereas but a single point bearing is obtained when the plunger
is cylindrical and free to revolve. The plunger shown at A will follow
only cam profiles which have gradual lifts. The plunger shown at B is
left free to revolve in the guide bushing and is provided with a flat
mushroom head which serves as a cam follower. The type shown at C
carries a roller at its lower end and may follow very irregular cam
profiles if abrupt lifts are desired. While forms A and B are the
simplest, that outlined at C in its various forms is more widely used.
Compound plungers are used on the Curtiss OX-2 motors, one inside the
other. The small or inner one works on a cam of conventional design, the
outer plunger follows a profile having a flat spot to permit of a pull
rod action instead of a push rod action. All the methods in which levers
are used to operate valves are more or less noisy because clearance must
be left between the valve stem and the stop of the plunger. The space
must be taken up before the valve will leave its seat, and when the
engine is operated at high speeds the forcible contact between the
plunger and valve stem produces a rattling sound until the valves become
heated and expand and the stems lengthen out. Clearance must be left
between the valve stems and actuating means. This clearance is clearly
shown in Fig. 103 and should be .020" (twenty thousandths) when engine
is cold. The amount of clearance allowed depends entirely upon the
design of the engine and length of valve stem. On the Curtiss OX-2
engines the clearance is but .010" (ten thousandths) because the valve
stems are shorter. Too little clearance will result in loss of power or
misfiring when engine is hot. Too much clearance will not allow the
valve to open its full amount and will disturb the timing.

