[Illustration: Fig. 103.--Diagram Showing Proper Clearance to Allow
Between Adjusting Screw and Valve Stems in Hall-Scott Aviation Engines.]


METHODS OF DRIVING CAM-SHAFT

Two systems of cam-shaft operation are used. The most common of these is
by means of gearing of some form. If the cam-shaft is at right angles to
the crank-shaft it may be driven by worm, spiral, or bevel gearing. If
the cam-shaft is parallel to the crank-shaft, simple spur gear or chain
connection may be used to turn it. A typical cam-shaft for an
eight-cylinder V engine is shown at Fig. 104. It will be seen that the
sixteen cams are forged integrally with the shaft and that it is
spur-gear driven. The cam-shaft drive of the Hall-Scott motor is shown
at Fig. 97.

[Illustration: Fig. 104.--Cam-Shaft of Thomas Airplane Motor Has Cams
Forged Integral. Note Split Cam-Shaft Bearings and Method of Gear
Retention.]

While gearing is more commonly used, considerable attention has been
directed of late to silent chains for cam-shaft operation. The ordinary
forms of block or roller chain have not proven successful in this
application, but the silent chain, which is in reality a link belt
operating over toothed pulleys, has demonstrated its worth. The tendency
to its use is more noted on foreign motors than those of American
design. It first came to public notice when employed on the
Daimler-Knight engine for driving the small auxiliary crank-shafts which
reciprocated the sleeve valves. The advantages cited for the application
of chains are, first, silent operation, which obtains even after the
chains have worn considerably; second, in designing it is not necessary
to figure on maintaining certain absolute center distances between the
crank-shaft and cam-shaft sprockets, as would be the case if
conventional forms of gearing were used. On some forms of motor
employing gears, three and even four members are needed to turn the
cam-shaft. With a chain drive but two sprockets are necessary, the chain
forming a flexible connection which permits the driving and driven
members to be placed at any distance apart that the exigencies of the
design demand. When chains are used it is advised that some means for
compensating chain slack be provided, or the valve timing will lag when
chains are worn. Many combination drives may be worked out with chains
that would not be possible with other forms of gearing. Direct gear
drive is favored at the present time by airplane engine designers
because they are the most certain and positive means, even when a number
of gears must be used as intermediate drive members. With overhead
cam-shafts, bevel gears work out very well in practice, as in the
Hall-Scott motors and others of that type.

