
VALVE SPRINGS

[Illustration: Fig. 105.--Section Through Cylinder of Knight Motor,
Showing Important Parts of Valve Motion.]

Another consideration of importance is the use of proper valve-springs,
and particular care should be taken with those, of automatic valves. The
spring must be weak enough to allow the valve to open when the suction
is light, and must be of sufficient strength to close it in time at high
speeds. It should be made as large as possible in diameter and with a
large number of convolutions, in order that fatigue of the metal be
obviated, and it is imperative that all springs be of the same strength
when used on a multiple-cylinder engine. Practically all valves used to
control the gas flow in airplane engines are mechanically operated. On
the exhaust valve the spring must be strong enough so that the valve
will not be sucked in on the inlet stroke. It should be borne in mind
that if the spring is too strong a strain will be imposed on the
valve-operating mechanism, and a hammering action produced which may
cause deformation of the valve-seat. Only pressure enough to insure that
the operating mechanism will follow the cam is required. It is common
practice to make the inlet and exhaust valve springs of the same
tension when the valves are of the same size and both mechanically
operated. This is done merely to simplify manufacture and not because it
is necessary for the inlet valve-spring to be as strong as the other.
Valve springs of the helical coil type are generally used, though
torsion or "scissors" springs and laminated or single-leaf springs are
also utilized in special applications. Two springs are used on each
valve in some valve-in-the-head types; a spring of small pitch diameter
inside the regular valve-spring and concentric with it. Its function is
to keep the valve from falling into the cylinder in event of breakage of
the main spring in some cases, and to provide a stronger return action
in others.

[Illustration: Fig. 106.--Diagrams Showing Knight Sleeve Valve Action.]

