
KNIGHT SLIDE VALVE MOTOR

The sectional view through the cylinder at Fig. 105 shows the Knight
sliding sleeves and their actuating means very clearly. The diagrams at
Fig. 106 show graphically the sleeve movements and their relation to the
crank-shaft and piston travel. The action may be summed up as follows:
The inlet port begins to open when the lower edge of the opening of the
outside sleeve which is moving down passes the top of the slot in the
inner member also moving downwardly. The inlet port is closed when the
lower edge of the slot in the inner sleeve which is moving up passes the
top edge of the port in the outer sleeve which is also moving toward the
top of the cylinder. The inlet opening extends over two hundred degrees
of crank motion. The exhaust port is uncovered slightly when the lower
edge of the port in the inner sleeve which is moving down passes the
lower edge of the portion of the cylinder head which protrudes in the
cylinder. When the top of the port in the outer sleeve traveling toward
the bottom of the cylinder passes the lower edge of the slot in the
cylinder wall the exhaust passage is closed. The exhaust opening extends
over a period corresponding to about two hundred and forty degrees of
crank motion. The Knight motor has not been applied to aircraft to the
writer's knowledge, but an eight-cylinder Vee design that might be
useful in that connection if lightened is shown at Fig. 107. The main
object is to show that the Knight valve action is the only other besides
the mushroom or poppet valve that has been applied successfully to high
speed gasoline engines.


VALVE TIMING

It is in valve timing that the greatest difference of opinion prevails
among engineers, and it is rare that one will see the same formula in
different motors. It is true that the same timing could not be used with
motors of different construction, as there are many factors which
determine the amount of lead to be given to the valves. The most
important of these is the relative size of the valve to the cylinder
bore, the speed of rotation it is desired to obtain, the fuel
efficiency, the location of the valves, and other factors too numerous
to mention.

