[Illustration: Fig. 107.--Cross Sectional View of Knight Type Eight
Cylinder V Engine.]

Most of the readers should be familiar with the cycle of operation of
the internal combustion motor of the four-stroke type, and it seems
unnecessary to go into detail except to present a review. The first
stroke of the piston is one in which a charge of gas is taken into the
motor; the second stroke, which is in reverse direction to the first, is
a compression stroke, at the end of which the spark takes place,
exploding the charge and driving the piston down on the third or
expansion stroke, which is in the same direction as the intake stroke,
and finally, after the piston has nearly reached the end of this stroke,
another valve opens to allow the burned gases to escape, and remains
open until the piston has reached the end of the fourth stroke and is in
a position to begin the series over again. The ends of the strokes are
reached when the piston comes to a stop at either top or bottom of the
cylinder and reverses its motion. That point is known as a center, and
there are two for each cylinder, top and bottom centers, respectively.

All circles may be divided into 360 parts, each of which is known as a
degree, and, in turn, each of these degrees may be again divided into
minutes and seconds, though we need not concern ourselves with anything
less than the degree. Each stroke of the piston represents 180 degrees
travel of the crank, because two strokes represent one complete
revolution of three hundred and sixty degrees. The top and bottom
centers are therefore separated by 180 degrees. Theoretically each phase
of a four-cycle engine begins and ends at a center, though in actual
practice the inertia or movement of the gases makes it necessary to
allow a lead or lag to the valve, as the case may be. If a valve opens
before a center, the distance is called "lead"; if it closes after a
center, this distance is known as "lag." The profile of the cams
ordinarily used to open or close the valves represents a considerable
time in relation to the 180 degrees of the crank-shaft travel, and the
area of the passages through which the gases are admitted or exhausted
is quite small owing to the necessity of having to open or close the
valves at stated times; therefore, to open an adequately large passage
for the gases it is necessary to open the valves earlier and close them
later than at centers.

