
LEAD GIVEN EXHAUST VALVE

The faster a motor turns, all other things being equal, the greater the
amount of lead or advance it is necessary to give the opening of the
exhaust valve. It is self-evident truth that if the speed of a motor is
doubled it travels twice as many degrees in the time necessary to lower
the pressure. As most designers are cognizant of this fact, the valves
are proportioned accordingly. It is well to consider in this respect
that the cam profile has much to do with the manner in which the valve
is opened; that is, the lift may be abrupt and the gas allowed to escape
in a body, or the opening may be gradual, the gas issuing from the
cylinder in thin streams. An analogy may be made with the opening of any
bottle which contains liquid highly carbonated. If the cork is removed
suddenly the gas escapes with a loud pop, but, on the other hand, if the
bottle is uncorked gradually, the gas escapes from the receptacle in
thin streams around the cork, and passage of the gases to the air is
accomplished without noise. While the second plan is not harsh, it is
slower than the former, as must be evident.


EXHAUST CLOSING, INLET OPENING

A point which has been much discussed by engineers is the proper
relation of the closing of the exhaust valve and the opening of the
inlet. Theoretically they should succeed each other, the exhaust closing
at upper dead center and the inlet opening immediately afterward. The
reason why a certain amount of lag is given the exhaust closing in
practice is that the piston cannot drive the gases out of the cylinder
unless they are compressed to a degree in excess of that existing in the
manifold or passages, and while toward the end of the stroke this
pressure may be feeble, it is nevertheless indispensable. At the end of
the piston's stroke, as marked by the upper dead center, this
compression still exists, no matter how little it may be, so that if the
exhaust valve is closed and the inlet opened immediately afterward, the
pressure which exists in the cylinder may retard the entrance of the
fresh gas and a certain portion of the inert gas may penetrate into the
manifold. As the piston immediately begins to aspirate, this may not be
serious, but as these gases are drawn back into the cylinder the fresh
charge will be diluted and weakened in value. If the spark-plug is in a
pocket, the points may be surrounded by this weak gas, and the explosion
will not be nearly as energetic as when the ignition spark takes place
in pure mixture.

