It is a well-known fact that the exhaust valve should close after dead
center and that a certain amount of lag should be given to opening of
the inlet. The lag given the closing of the exhaust valve should not be
as great as that given the closing of the inlet valve. Assuming that the
excess pressure of the exhaust will equal the depression during
aspiration, the time necessary to complete the emptying of the cylinder
will be proportional to the volume of the gas within it. At the end of
the suction stroke the volume of gas contained in the cylinder is equal
to the cylindrical volume plus the space of the combustion chamber. At
the end of the exhaust stroke the volume is but that of the dead space,
and from one-third to one-fifth its volume before compression. While it
is natural to assume that this excess of burned gas will escape faster
than the fresh gas will enter the cylinder, it will be seen that if the
inlet valve were allowed to lag twenty degrees, the exhaust valve lag
need not be more than five degrees, providing that the capacity of the
combustion chamber was such that the gases occupied one-quarter of their
former volume.

It is evident that no absolute rule can be given, as back pressure will
vary with the design of the valve passages, the manifolds, and the
construction of the muffler. The more direct the opening, the sooner the
valve can be closed and the better the cylinder cleared. Ten degrees
represent an appreciable angle of the crank, and the time required for
the crank to cover this angular motion is not inconsiderable and an
important quantity of the exhaust may escape, but the piston is very
close to the dead center after the distance has been covered.

Before the inlet valve opens there should be a certain depression in the
cylinder, and considerable lag may be allowed before the depression is
appreciable. So far as the volume of fresh gas introduced during the
admission stroke is concerned, this is determined by the displacement of
the piston between the point where the inlet valve opens and the point
of closing, assuming that sufficient gas has been inspired so that an
equilibrium of pressure has been established between the interior of the
cylinder and the outer air. The point of inlet opening varies with
different motors. It would appear that a fair amount of lag would be
fifteen degrees past top center for the inlet opening, as a certain
depression will exist in the cylinder, assuming that the exhaust valve
has closed five or ten degrees after center, and at the same time the
piston has not gone down far enough on its stroke to materially decrease
the amount of gas which will be taken into the cylinder.

