[Illustration: Fig. 108.--Diagrams Explaining Valve and Ignition Timing
of Hall-Scott Aviation Engine.]

It is apparent that a motor with a fixed point of ignition is not as
desirable, in every way, as one in which the ignition can be advanced to
best meet different requirements, and the writer does not readily
perceive any advantage outside of simplicity of control in establishing
a fixed point of ignition. In fact, there seems to be some difference of
opinion among those designers who favor fixed ignition, and in one case
this is located forty-three degrees ahead of center, and in another
motor the point is fixed at twenty degrees, so that it may be said that
this will vary as much as one hundred per cent. in various forms. This
point will vary with different methods of ignition, as well as the
location of the spark-plug or igniter. For the sake of simplicity, most
airplane engines use set spark; if an advancing and retarding mechanism
is fitted, it is only to facilitate starting, as the spark is kept
advanced while in flight, and control is by throttle alone.

[Illustration: Fig. 109.--Timing Diagram of Typical Six-Cylinder
Engine.]

It is obvious by consideration of the foregoing that there can be no
arbitrary rules established for timing, because of the many conditions
which determine the best times for opening and closing the valves. It is
customary to try various settings when a new motor is designed until the
most satisfactory points are determined, and the setting which will be
very suitable for one motor is not always right for one of different
design. The timing diagram shown at Fig. 108 applies to the Hall-Scott
engine, and may be considered typical. It should be easily followed in
view of the very complete explanation given in preceding pages. Another
six-cylinder engine diagram is shown at Fig. 109, and an eight-cylinder
timing diagram is shown at Fig. 110. In timing automobile engines no
trouble is experienced, because timing marks are always indicated on
the engine fly-wheel register with an indicating trammel on the
crank-case. To time an airplane engine accurately, as is necessary to
test for a suspected cam-shaft defect, a timing disc of aluminum is
attached to the crank-shaft which has the timing marks indicated
thereon. If the disc is made 10 or 12 inches in diameter, it may be
divided into degrees without difficulty.

