[Illustration: Fig. 110.--Timing Diagram of Typical Eight-Cylinder V
Engine.]


HOW AN ENGINE IS TIMED

In timing a motor from the marks on the timing disc rim it is necessary
to regulate the valves of but one cylinder at a time. Assuming that the
disc is revolving in the direction of engine rotation, and that the
firing order of the cylinders is 1-3-4-2, the operation of timing would
be carried on as follows: The crank-shaft would be revolved until the
line marked "Exhaust opens 1 and 4" registered with the trammel on the
motor bed. At this point the exhaust-valve of either cylinder No. 1 or
No. 4 should begin to open. This can be easily determined by noting
which of these cylinders holds the compressed charge ready for ignition.
Assuming that the spark has occurred in cylinder No. 1, then when the
fly-wheel is turned from the position to that in which the line marked
"Exhaust opens 1 and 4" coincides with the trammel point, the
valve-plunger under the exhaust-valve of cylinder No. 1 should be
adjusted in such a way that there is no clearance between it and the
valve stem. Further movement of the wheel in the same direction should
produce a lift of the exhaust valve. The disc is turned about two
hundred and twenty-five degrees, or a little less than three-quarters of
a revolution; then the line marked "Exhaust closes 1 and 4" will
register with the trammel point. At this period the valve-plunger and
the valve-stem should separate and a certain amount of clearance obtain
between them. The next cylinder to time would be No. 3. The crank-shaft
is rotated until mark "Exhaust opens 2 and 3" comes in line with the
trammel. At this point the exhaust valve of cylinder No. 3 should be
just about opening. The closing is determined by rotating the shaft
until the line "Exhaust closes 2 and 3" comes under the trammel.

This operation is carried on with all the cylinders, it being well to
remember that but one cylinder is working at a time and that a
half-revolution of the fly-wheel corresponds to a full working stroke of
all the cylinders, and that while one is exhausting the others are
respectively taking in a new charge, compressing and exploding. For
instance, if cylinder No. 1 has just completed its power-stroke, the
piston in cylinder No. 3 has reached the point where the gas may be
ignited to advantage. The piston of cylinder No. 4, which is next to
fire, is at the bottom of its stroke and will have inspired a charge,
while cylinder No. 2, which is the last to fire, will have just finished
expelling a charge of burned gas, and will be starting the intake
stroke. This timing relates to a four-cylinder engine in order to
simplify the explanation. The timing instructions given apply only to
the conventional motor types. Rotary cylinder engines, especially the
Gnome "monosoupape," have a distinctive valve timing on account of the
peculiarities of design.

