
GNOME "MONOSOUPAPE" VALVE TIMING

In the present design of the Gnome motor, a cycle of operations somewhat
different from that employed in the ordinary four-cycle engine is made
use of, says a writer in "The Automobile," in describing the action of
this power-plant. This cycle does away with the need for the usual inlet
valve and makes the engine operable with only a single valve, hence the
name _monosoupape_, or "single-valve." The cycle is as follows: A charge
being compressed in the outer end of the cylinder or combustion chamber,
it is ignited by a spark produced by the spark-plug located in the side
of this chamber, and the burning charge expands as the piston moves down
in the cylinder while the latter revolves around the crank-shaft. When
the piston is about half-way down on the power stroke, the exhaust
valve, which is located in the center of the cylinder-head, is
mechanically opened, and during the following upstroke of the piston the
burnt gases are expelled from the cylinder through the exhaust valve
directly into the atmosphere.

Instead of closing at the end of the exhaust stroke, or a few degrees
thereafter, the exhaust valve is held open for about two-thirds of the
following inlet stroke of the piston, with the result that fresh air is
drawn through the exhaust valve into the cylinder. When the cylinder is
still 65 degrees from the end of the inlet half-revolution, the exhaust
valve closes. As no more air can get into the cylinder, and as the
piston continues to move inwardly, it is obvious that a partial vacuum
is formed.

When the cylinder approaches within 20 degrees of the end of the inlet
half-revolution a series of small inlet ports all around the
circumference of the cylinder wall is uncovered by the top edge of the
piston, whereby the combustion chamber is placed in communication with
the crank chamber. As the pressure in the crank chamber is substantially
atmospheric and that in the combustion chamber is below atmospheric,
there results a suction effect which causes the air from the crank
chamber to flow into the combustion chamber. The air in the crank
chamber is heavily charged with gasoline vapor, which is due to the fact
that a spray nozzle connected with the gasoline supply tank is located
inside the chamber. The proportion of gasoline vapor in the air in the
crank chamber is several times as great as in the ordinary combustible
mixture drawn from a carburetor into the cylinder. This extra-rich
mixture is diluted in the combustion chamber with the air which entered
it through the exhaust valve during the first part of the inlet stroke,
thus forming a mixture of the proper proportion for complete combustion.

