The inlet ports in the cylinder wall remain open until 20 degrees of
the compression half-revolution has been completed, and from that moment
to near the end of the compression stroke the gases are compressed in
the cylinder. Near the end of the stroke ignition takes place and this
completes the cycle.

The exact timing of the different phases of the cycle is shown in the
diagram at Fig. 111. It will be seen that ignition occurs substantially
20 degrees ahead of the outer dead center, and expansion of the burning
gases continues until 85 degrees past the outer dead center, when the
piston is a little past half-stroke. Then the exhaust-valve opens and
remains open for somewhat more than a complete revolution of the
cylinders, or, to be exact, for 390 degrees of cylinder travel, until
115 degrees past the top dead center on the second revolution. Then for
45 degrees of travel the charge within the cylinder is expanded,
whereupon the inlet ports are uncovered and remain open for 40 degrees
of cylinder travel, 20 degrees on each side of the inward dead center
position.


SPRINGLESS VALVES

Springless valves are the latest development on French racing car
engines, and it is possible that the positively-operated types will be
introduced on aviation engines also. Two makes of positively-actuated
valves are shown at Fig. 112. The positive-valve motor differs from the
conventional form by having no necessity for valve-springs, as a cam not
only assures the opening of the valve, but also causes it to return to
the valve-seat. In this respect it is much like the sleeve-valve motor,
where the uncovering of the ports is absolutely positive. The cars
equipped with these valves were a success in long-distance auto races.
Claims made for this type of valve mechanism include the possibility of
a higher number of revolutions and consequently greater engine power.
With the spring-controlled, single-cam operated valve a point is reached
where the spring is not capable of returning the valve to its seat
before the cam has again begun its opening movement. It is possible to
extend the limits considerably by using a light valve on a strong
spring, but the valve still remains a limiting factor in the speed of
the motor.

