[Illustration: Fig. 111.--Timing Diagram Showing Peculiar Valve Timing
of Gnome "Monosoupape" Rotary Motor.]

A part sectional view through a cylinder of an engine designed by G.
Michaux is shown at Fig. 112, A. There are two valves per cylinder,
inclined at about ten degrees from the vertical. The valve-stems are of
large diameter, as owing to positive control, there is no necessity of
lightening this part in an unusual degree. A single overhead cam-shaft
has eight pairs of cams, which are shown in detail at B. For each valve
there is a three-armed rocker, one arm of which is connected to the stem
of the valve and the two others are in contact respectively with the
opening and closing cams. The connection to the end of the valve-stem is
made by a short connecting link, which is screwed on to the end of the
valve-stem and locked in position. This allows some adjustment to be
made between the valves and the actuating rocker. It will be evident
that one cam and one rocker arm produce the opening of the valve and
that the corresponding rocker arm and cam result in the closing of the
valve. If the opening cam has the usual convex profile, the closing cam
has a correspondingly concave profile. It will be noticed that a light
valve-spring is shown in drawing. This is provided to give a final
seating to its valve after it has been closed by the cam. This is not
absolutely necessary, as an engine has been run successfully without
these springs. The whole mechanism is contained within an overhead
aluminum cover.

[Illustration: Fig. 112.--Two Methods of Operating Valves by Positive
Cam Mechanism Which Closes as Well as Opens Them.]

The positive-valve system used on the De Lage motor is shown at D. In
this the valves are actuated as shown in sectional views D and E. The
valve system is unique in that four valves are provided per cylinder,
two for exhaust and two for intake. The valves are mounted side by side,
as shown at E, so the double actuator member may be operated by a single
set of cams. The valve-operating member consists of a yoke having guide
bars at the top and bottom. The actuating cam works inside of this yoke.
The usual form of cam acts on the lower portion of the yoke to open the
valve, while the concave cam acts on the upper part to close the valves.
In this design provision is made for expansion of the valve-stems due to
heat, and these are not positively connected to the actuating member. As
shown at E, the valves are held against the seat by short coil springs
at the upper end of the stem. These are very stiff and are only intended
to provide for expansion. A slight space is left between the top of the
valve-stem and the portion of the operating member that bears against
them when the regular profile cam exerts its pressure on the bottom of
the valve-operating mechanism. Another novelty in this motor design is
that the cam-shafts and the valve-operating members are carried in
casing attached above the motor by housing supports in the form of small
steel pillars. The overhead cam-shafts are operated by means of bevel
gearing.

