
FOUR VALVES PER CYLINDER

[Illustration: Fig. 113.--Diagram Comparing Two Large Valves and Four
Small Ones of Practically the Same Area. Note How Easily Small Valves
are Installed to Open Directly Into the Cylinder.]

Mention has been previously made of the sixteen-valve four-cylinder
Duesenberg motor and its great power output for the piston displacement.
This is made possible by the superior volumetric efficiency of a motor
provided with four valves in each cylinder instead of but two. This
principle was thoroughly tried out in racing automobile motors, and is
especially valuable in permitting of greater speed and power output from
simple four- and six-cylinder engines. On eight- and twelve-cylinder
types, it is doubtful if the resulting complication due to using a very
large number of valves would be worth while. When extremely large valves
are used, as shown in diagram at Fig. 113, it is difficult to have them
open directly into the cylinder, and pockets are sometimes necessary. A
large valve would weigh more than two smaller valves having an area
slightly larger in the aggregate; it would require a stiffer valve
spring on account of its greater weight. A certain amount of metal in
the valve-head is necessary to prevent warping; therefore, the inertia
forces will be greater in the large valve than in the two smaller
valves. As a greater port area is obtained by the use of two valves,
the gases will be drawn into the cylinder or expelled faster than with a
lesser area. Even if the areas are practically the same as in the
diagram at Fig. 113, the smaller valves may have a greater lift without
imposing greater stresses on the valve-operating mechanism and quicker
gas intake and exhaust obtained. The smaller valves are not affected by
heat as much as larger ones are. The quicker gas movements made
possible, as well as reduction of inertia forces, permits of higher
rotative speed, and, consequently, greater power output for a given
piston displacement. The drawings at Fig. 114 show a sixteen-valve motor
of the four-cylinder type that has been designed for automobile racing
purposes, and it is apparent that very slight modifications would make
it suitable for aviation purposes. Part of the efficiency is due to the
reduction of bearing friction by the use of ball bearings, but the
multiple-valve feature is primarily responsible for the excellent
performance.

