[Illustration: Fig. 114.--Sectional Views of Sixteen-Valve Four-Cylinder
Automobile Racing Engine That May Have Possibilities for Aviation
Service.]

[Illustration: Fig. 115.--Front View of Curtiss OX-3 Aviation Motor,
Showing Unconventional Valve Action by Concentric Push Rod and Pull
Tube.]




CHAPTER IX

Constructional Details of Pistons--Aluminum Cylinders and
Pistons--Piston Ring Construction--Leak Proof Piston Rings--
Keeping Oil Out of Combustion Chamber--Connecting Rod Forms--
Connecting Rods for Vee Engines--Cam-Shaft and Crank-Shaft
Designs--Ball Bearing Crank-Shafts--Engine Base Construction.


CONSTRUCTIONAL DETAILS OF PISTONS

The piston is one of the most important parts of the gasoline motor
inasmuch as it is the reciprocating member that receives the impact of
the explosion and which transforms the power obtained by the combustion
of gas to mechanical motion by means of the connecting rod to which it
is attached. The piston is one of the simplest elements of the motor,
and it is one component which does not vary much in form in different
types of motors. The piston is a cylindrical member provided with a
series of grooves in which packing rings are placed on the outside and
two bosses which serve to hold the wrist pin in its interior. It is
usually made of cast iron or aluminum, though in some motors where
extreme lightness is desired, such as those used for aëronautic work, it
may be made of steel. The use of the more resisting material enables the
engineer to use lighter sections where it is important that the weight
of this member be kept as low as possible consistent with strength.

[Illustration: Fig. 116.--Forms of Pistons Commonly Employed in Gasoline
Engines. A--Dome Head Piston and Three Packing Rings. B--Flat Top Form
Almost Universally Used. C--Concave Piston Utilized in Knight Motors and
Some Having Overhead Valves. D--Two-Cycle Engine Member with Deflector
Plate Cast Integrally. E--Differential of Two-Diameter Piston Used in
Some Engines Operating on Two-Cycle Principle.]

