A number of piston types are shown at Fig. 116. That at A has a round
top and is provided with four split packing rings and two oil grooves. A
piston of this type is generally employed in motors where the combustion
chamber is large and where it is desired to obtain a higher degree of
compression than would be possible with a flat top piston. This
construction is also stronger because of the arched piston top. The most
common form of piston is that shown at B, and it differs from that
previously described only in that it has a flat top. The piston outlined
in section at C is a type used on some of the sleeve-valve motors of the
Knight pattern, and has a concave head instead of the convex form shown
at A. The design shown at D in side and plan views is the conventional
form employed in two-cycle engines. The deflector plate on the top of
the cylinder is cast integral and is utilized to prevent the incoming
fresh gases from flowing directly over the piston top and out of the
exhaust port, which is usually opposite the inlet opening. On these
types of two-cycle engines where a two-diameter cylinder is employed,
the piston shown at E is used. This is known as a "differential
piston," and has an enlarged portion at its lower end which fits the
pumping cylinder. The usual form of deflector plate is provided at the
top of the piston and one may consider it as two pistons in one.

[Illustration: Fig. 117.--Typical Methods of Piston Pin Retention
Generally Used in Engines of American Design. A--Single Set Screw and
Lock Nut. B--Set Screw and Check Nut Fitting Groove in Wrist Pin. C,
D--Two Locking Screws Passing Into Interior of Hollow Wrist Pin.
E--Split Ring Holds Pin in Place. F--Use of Taper Expanding Plugs
Outlined. G--Spring Pressed Plunger Type. H--Piston Pin Pinned to
Connecting Rod. I--Wrist Pin Clamped in Connecting Rod Small End by
Bolt.]

[Illustration: Fig. 118.--Typical Piston and Connecting Rod Assembly.]

[Illustration: Fig. 119.--Parts of Sturtevant Aviation Engine.
A--Cylinder Head Showing Valves. B--Connecting Rod. C--Piston and
Rings.]

