[Illustration: Fig. 121.--Cast Iron Piston of "Monosoupape" Gnome Engine
Installed On One of the Short Connecting Rods.]

The system shown at F is not so widely used as the simpler methods,
because it is more costly and does not offer any greater security when
the parts are new than the simple lock shown at A. In this a hollow
wrist pin is used, having a tapered thread cut at each end. The wrist
pin is slotted at three or four points, for a distance equal to the
length of the boss, and when taper expansion plugs are screwed in place
the ends of the wrist pin are expanded against the bosses. This method
has the advantage of providing a certain degree of adjustment if the
wrist pin should loosen up after it has been in use for some time. The
taper plugs would be screwed in deeper and the ends of the wrist pin
expanded proportionately to take up the loss motion. The method shown at
G is an ingenious one. One of the piston bosses is provided with a
projection which is drilled out to receive a plunger. The wrist pin is
provided with a hole of sufficient size to receive the plunger, which is
kept in place by means of a spring in back of it. This makes a very
positive lock and one that can be easily loosened when it is desired to
remove the wrist pin. To unlock, a piece of fine rod is thrust into the
hole at the bottom of the boss which pushes the plunger back against the
spring until the wrist pin can be pushed out of the piston.

Some engineers think it advisable to oscillate the wrist pin in the
piston bosses, instead of in the connecting rod small end. It is argued
that this construction gives more bearing surface at the wrist pin and
also provides for more strength because of the longer bosses that can be
used. When this system is followed the piston pin is held in place by
locking it to the connecting rod by some means. At H the simplest method
is outlined. This consisted of driving a taper pin through both rod and
wrist pin and then preventing it from backing out by putting a split
cotter through the small end of the tapered locking pin. Another method,
which is depicted at I, consists of clamping the wrist pin by means of a
suitable bolt which brings the slit connecting rod end together as
shown.

