
ALUMINUM FOR CYLINDERS AND PISTONS

Aluminum pistons outlined at Fig. 122, have replaced cast iron members
in many airplane engines, as these weigh about one-third as much as the
cast iron forms of the same size, while the reduction in the inertia
forces has made it possible to increase the engine speed without
correspondingly stressing the connecting rods, crank-shaft and engine
bearings.

[Illustration: Fig. 122.--Types of Aluminum Pistons Used In Aviation
Engines.]

Aluminum has not only been used for pistons, but a number of motors will
be built for the coming season that will use aluminum cylinder block
castings as well. Of course, the aluminum alloy is too soft to be used
as a bearing for the piston, and it will not withstand the hammering
action of the valve. This makes the use of cast iron or steel imperative
in all motors. When used in connection with an aluminum cylinder block
the cast iron pieces are placed in the mould so that they act as
cylinder liners and valve seats, and the molten metal is poured around
them when the cylinder is cast. It is said that this construction
results in an intimate bond between the cast iron and the surrounding
aluminum metal. Steel liners may also be pressed into the aluminum
cylinders after these are bored out to receive them. Aluminum has for a
number of years been used in many motor car parts. Alloys have been
developed that have greater strength than cast iron and that are not so
brittle. Its use for manifolds and engine crank and gear cases has been
general for a number of years.

At first thought it would seem as though aluminum would be entirely
unsuited for use in those portions of internal combustion engines
exposed to the heat of the explosion, on account of the low melting
point of that metal and its disadvantageous quality of suddenly
"wilting" when a critical point in the temperature is reached. Those who
hesitated to use aluminum on account of this defect lost sight of the
great heat conductivity of that metal, which is considerably more than
that of cast iron. It was found in early experiments with aluminum
pistons that this quality of quick radiation meant that aluminum pistons
remained considerably cooler than cast iron ones in service, which was
attested to by the reduced formation of carbon deposit thereon. The use
of aluminum makes possible a marked reduction in power plant weight. A
small four-cylinder engine which was not particularly heavy even with
cast iron cylinders was found to weigh 100 pounds less when the cylinder
block, pistons, and upper half of the crank-case had been made of
aluminum instead of cast iron. Aluminum motors are no longer an
experiment, as a considerable number of these have been in use on cars
during the past year without the owners of the cars being apprised of
the fact. Absolutely no complaint was made in any case of the aluminum
motor and it was demonstrated, in addition to the saving in weight, that
the motors cost no more to assemble and cooled much more efficiently
than the cast iron form. One of the drawbacks to the use of aluminum is
its growing scarcity, which results in making it a "near precious"
metal.

