
PISTON RING CONSTRUCTION

As all pistons must be free to move up and down in the cylinder with
minimum friction, they must be less in diameter than the bore of the
cylinder. The amount of freedom or clearance provided varies with the
construction of the engine and the material the piston is made of, as
well as its size, but it is usual to provide from .005 to .010 of an
inch to compensate for the expansion of the piston due to heat and also
to leave sufficient clearance for the introduction of lubricant between
the working surfaces. Obviously, if the piston were not provided with
packing rings, this amount of clearance would enable a portion of the
gases evolved when the charge is exploded to escape by it into the
engine crank-case. The packing members or piston rings, as they are
called, are split rings of cast iron, which are sprung into suitable
grooves machined on the exterior of the piston, three or four of these
being the usual number supplied. These have sufficient elasticity so
that they bear tightly against the cylinder wall and thus make a
gas-tight joint. Owing to the limited amount of surface in contact with
the cylinder wall and the elasticity of the split rings the amount of
friction resulting from the contact of properly fitted rings and the
cylinder is not of enough moment to cause any damage and the piston is
free to slide up and down in the cylinder bore.

[Illustration: Fig. 123.--Types of Piston Rings and Ring Joints.
A--Concentric Ring. B--Eccentrically Machined Form. C--Lap Joint Ring.
D--Butt Joint, Seldom Used. E--Diagonal Cut Member, a Popular Form.]

These rings are made in two forms, as outlined at Fig. 123. The design
shown at A is termed a "concentric ring," because the inner circle is
concentric with the outer one and the ring is of uniform thickness at
all points. The ring shown at B is called an "eccentric ring," and it is
thicker at one part than at others. It has theoretical advantages in
that it will make a tighter joint than the other form, as it is claimed
its expansion due to heat is more uniform. The piston rings must be
split in order that they may be sprung in place in the grooves, and also
to insure that they will have sufficient elasticity to take the form of
the cylinder at the different points in their travel. If the cylinder
bore varies by small amounts the rings will spring out at the points
where the bore is larger than standard, and spring in at those portions
where it is smaller than standard.

