It is important that the joint should be as nearly gas-tight as
possible, because if it were not a portion of the gases would escape
through the slots in the piston rings. The joint shown at C is termed a
"lap joint," because the ends of the ring are cut in such a manner that
they overlap. This is the approved joint. The butt joint shown at D is
seldom used and is a very poor form, the only advantage being its
cheapness. The diagonal cut shown at E is a compromise between the very
good form shown at C and the poor joint depicted at D. It is also widely
used, though most constructors prefer the lap joint, because it does not
permit the leakage of gas as much as the other two types.

There seems to be some difference of opinion relative to the best piston
ring type--some favoring the eccentric pattern, others the concentric
form. The concentric ring has advantages from the lubricating engineer's
point of view; as stated by the Platt & Washburn Company in their
text-book on engine lubrication, the smaller clearance behind the ring
possible with the ring of uniform section is advantageous.

Fig. 124, A, shows a concentric piston ring in its groove. Since the
ring itself is concentric with the groove, very small clearance between
the back of the ring and the bottom of its groove may be allowed. Small
clearance leaves less space for the accumulation of oil and carbon
deposits. The gasket effect of this ring is uniform throughout the
entire length of its edges, which is its marked advantage over the
eccentric ring. This type of piston ring rarely burns fast in its
groove. There are a large number of different concentric rings
manufactured of different designs and of different efficiency.

[Illustration: Fig. 124.--Diagrams Showing Advantages of Concentric
Piston Rings.]

Figs. 124, B and 124, C show eccentric rings assembled in the ring
groove. It will be noted that there is a large space between the thin
ends of this ring and the bottom of the groove. This empty space fills
up with oil which in the case of the upper ring frequently is
carbonized, restricting the action of the ring and nullifying its
usefulness. The edges of the thin ends are not sufficiently wide to
prevent rapid escape of gases past them. In a practical way this leakage
means loss of compression and noticeable drop in power. When new and
properly fitted, very little difference can be noted between the
tightness of eccentric and concentric rings. Nevertheless, after several
months' use, a more rapid leakage will always occur past the eccentric
than past the concentric. If continuous trouble with the carbonization
of cylinders, smoking and sooting of spark-plugs is experienced, it is
a sure indication that mechanical defects exist in the engine, assuming
of course, that a suitable oil has been used. Such trouble can be
greatly lessened, if not entirely eliminated, by the application of
concentric rings (lap joint), of any good make, properly fitted into the
grooves of the piston. Too much emphasis cannot be put upon this point.
If the oil used in the engine is of the correct viscosity, and serious
carbon deposit, smoking, etc., still result, the only certain remedy
then is to have the cylinders rebored and fitted with properly designed,
oversized pistons and piston rings.

