
LEAK-PROOF PISTON RINGS

In order to reduce the compression loss and leakage of gas by the
ordinary simple form of diagonal or lap joint one-piece piston ring a
number of compound rings have been devised and are offered by their
makers to use in making replacements. The leading forms are shown at
Fig. 125. That shown at A is known as the "Statite" and consists of
three rings, one carried inside while the other two are carried on the
outside. The ring shown at B is a double ring and is known as the
McCadden. This is composed of two thin concentric lap joint rings so
disposed relative to each other that the opening in the inner ring comes
opposite to the opening in the outer ring.

The form shown at C is known as the "Leektite," and is a single ring
provided with a peculiar form of lap and dove tail joint. The ring shown
at D is known as the "Dunham" and is of the double concentric type being
composed of two rings with lap joints which are welded together at a
point opposite the joint so that there is no passage by which the gas
can escape. The Burd high compression ring is shown at E. The joints of
these rings are sealed by means of an H-shaped coupler of bronze which
closes the opening. The ring ends are made with tongues which interlock
with the coupling. The ring shown at F is called the "Evertite" and is
a three-piece ring composed of three members as shown in the sectional
view below the ring. The main part or inner ring has a circumferential
channel in which the two outer rings lock, the resulting cross-section
being rectangular just the same as that of a regular pattern ring. All
three rings are diagonally split and the joints are spaced equally and
the distances maintained by small pins. This results in each joint being
sealed by the solid portion of the other rings.

[Illustration: Fig. 125.--Leak-Proof and Other Compound Piston Rings.]

The use of a number of light steel rings instead of one wide ring in the
groove is found on a number of automobile power plants, but as far as
known, this construction is not used in airplane power plants. It is
contended that where a number of light rings is employed a more flexible
packing means is obtained and the possibility of leakage is reduced.
Rings of this design are made of square section steel wire and are given
a spring temper. Owing to the limited width the diagonal cut joint is
generally employed instead of the lap joint which is so popular on wider
rings.

