
KEEPING OIL OUT OF COMBUSTION CHAMBERS

An examination of the engine design that is economical in oil
consumption discloses the use of tight piston rings, large centrifugal
rings on the crank-shaft where it passes through the case, ample cooling
fins in the pistons, vents between the crank-case chamber and the valve
enclosures, etc. Briefly put, cooling of the oil in this engine has been
properly cared for and leakage reduced to a minimum. To be specific
regarding details of design: Oil surplus can be kept out of the
explosion chambers by leaving the lower edge of the piston skirt sharp
and by the use of a shallow groove (C), Fig. 126, just below the lower
piston ring. Small holes are bored through the piston walls at the base
of this groove and communicate with the crank-case. The similarity of
the sharp edges of piston skirt (D) and piston ring to a carpenter's
plane bit, makes their operation plain.

[Illustration: Fig. 126.--Sectional View of Engine Showing Means of
Preventing Oil Leakage By Piston Rings.]

The cooling of oil in the sump (A) can be accomplished most effectively
by radiating fins on its outer surface. The lower crank-case should be
fully exposed to the outer air. A settling basin for sediment (B) should
be provided having a cubic content not less than one-tenth of the total
oil capacity as outlined at Fig. 126. The depth of this basin should be
at least 2-1/2 inches, and its walls vertical, as shown, to reduce the
mixing of sediment with the oil in circulation. The inlet opening to the
oil pump should be near the top of the sediment basin in order to
prevent the entrance into the pump with the oil of any solid matter or
water condensed from the products of combustion. This sediment basin
should be drained after every five to seven hours air service of an
airplane engine. Concerning filtering screens there is little to be
said, save that their areas should be ample and the mesh coarse enough
(one-sixteenth of an inch) to offer no serious resistance to the free
flow of cold or heavy oil through them; otherwise the oil in the
crank-case may build up above them to an undesirable level. The
necessary frequency of draining and flushing out the oil sump differs
greatly with the age (condition) of the engine and the suitability of
the oil used. In broad terms, the oil sump of a new engine should be
thoroughly drained and flushed with kerosene at the end of the first
200 miles, next at the end of 500 miles and thereafter every 1,000
miles. While these instructions apply specifically to automobile motors,
it is very good practice to change the oil in airplane engines
frequently. In many cases, the best results have been secured when the
oil supply is completely replenished every five hours that the engine is
in operation.

