
CONNECTING ROD FORMS

The connecting rod is the simple member that joins the piston to the
crank-shaft and which transmits the power imparted to the piston by the
explosion so that it may be usefully applied. It transforms the
reciprocating movement of the piston to a rotary motion at the
crank-shaft. A typical connecting rod and its wrist pin are shown at
Fig. 120. It will be seen that it has two bearings, one at either end.
The small end is bored out to receive the wrist pin which joins it to
the piston, while the large end has a hole of sufficient size to go on
the crank-pin. The airplane and automobile engine connecting rod is
invariably a steel forging, though in marine engines it is sometimes
made a steel or high tensile strength bronze casting. In all cases it is
desirable to have softer metals than the crank-shaft and wrist pin at
the bearing point, and for this reason the connecting rod is usually
provided with bushings of anti-friction or white metal at the lower end,
and bronze at the upper. The upper end of the connecting rod may be one
piece, because the wrist pin can be introduced after it is in place
between the bosses of the piston. The lower bearing must be made in two
parts in most cases, because the crank-shaft cannot be passed through
the bearing owing to its irregular form. The rods of the Gnome engine
are all one piece types, as shown at Fig. 127, owing to the construction
of the "mother" rod which receives the crank-pins. The complete
connecting rod assembly is shown in Fig. 121, also at A, Fig. 127. The
"mother" rod, with one of the other rods in place and one about to be
inserted, is shown at Fig. 127, B. The built-up crank-shaft which makes
this construction feasible is shown at Fig. 127, C.

[Illustration: Fig. 127.--Connecting Rod and Crank-Shaft Construction of
Gnome "Monosoupape" Engine.]

Some of the various designs of connecting rods that have been used are
shown at Fig. 128. That at A is a simple form often employed in
single-cylinder motors, having built-up crank-shafts. Both ends of the
connecting rod are bushed with a one-piece bearing, as it can be
assembled in place before the crank-shaft assembly is built up. A
built-up crank-shaft such as this type of connecting rod would be used
with is shown at Fig. 106. The pattern shown at B is one that has been
used to some extent on heavy work, and is known as the "marine type." It
is made in three pieces, the main portion being a steel forging having a
flanged lower end to which the bronze boxes are secured by bolts. The
modified marine type depicted at C is the form that has received the
widest application in automobile and aviation engine construction. It
consists of two pieces, the main member being a steel drop forging
having the wrist-pin bearing and the upper crank-pin bearing formed
integral, while the lower crank-pin bearing member is a separate forging
secured to the connecting rod by bolts. In this construction bushings of
anti-friction metal are used at the lower end, and a bronze bushing is
forced into the upper- or wrist-pin end. The rod shown at D has also
been widely used. It is similar in construction to the form shown at C,
except that the upper end is split in order to permit of a degree of
adjustment of the wrist-pin bushing, and the lower bearing cap is a
hinged member which is retained by one bolt instead of two. When it is
desired to assemble it on the crank-shaft the lower cap is swung to one
side and brought back into place when the connecting rod has been
properly located. Sometimes the lower bearing member is split diagonally
instead of horizontally, such a construction being outlined at E.

