The various structural shapes in which connecting rods are formed are
shown in section at G. Of these the I section is most widely used in
airplane engines, because it is strong and a very easy shape to form by
the drop-forging process or to machine out of the solid bar when extra
good steel is used. Where extreme lightness is desired, as in small
high-speed motors used for cycle propulsion, the section shown at the
extreme left is often used. If the rod is a cast member as in some
marine engines, the cross, hollow cylinder, or U sections are sometimes
used. If the sections shown at the right are employed, advantage is
often taken of the opportunity for passing lubricant through the center
of the hollow round section on vertical motors or at the bottom of the U
section, which would be used on a horizontal cylinder power plant.

[Illustration: Fig. 130.--Another Type of Double Connecting Rod for Vee
Engines.]

Connecting rods of Vee engines are made in two distinct styles. The
forked or "scissors" joint rod assembly is employed when the cylinders
are placed directly opposite each other. The "blade" rod, as shown at
Fig. 129, fits between the lower ends of the forked rod, which oscillate
on the bearing which encircles the crank-pin. The lower end of the
"blade" rod is usually attached to the bearing brasses, the ends of the
"forked" rod move on the outer surfaces of the brasses. Another form of
rod devised for use under these conditions is shown at Fig. 130 and
installed in an aviation engine at Fig. 132. In this construction the
shorter rod is attached to a boss on the master rod by a short pin to
form a hinge and to permit the short rod to oscillate as the conditions
dictate. This form of rod can be easily adjusted when the bearing
depreciates, a procedure that is difficult with the forked type rod. The
best practice, in the writer's opinion, is to stagger the cylinders and
use side-by-side rods as is done in the Curtiss engine. Each rod may be
fitted independently of the other and perfect compensation for wear of
the big ends is possible.

