[Illustration: Fig. 131.--Part Sectional View of Wisconsin Aviation
Engine, Showing Four-Bearing Crank-Shaft, Overhead Cam-Shaft, and Method
of Combining Cylinders in Pairs.]

[Illustration: Fig. 132.--Part Sectional View of Renault Twelve-Cylinder
Water-Cooled Engine, Showing Connecting Rod Construction and Other
Important Internal Parts.]


CAM-SHAFT AND CRANK-SHAFT DESIGN

Before going extensively into the subject of crank-shaft construction it
will be well to consider cam-shaft design, which is properly a part of
the valve system and which has been considered in connection with the
other elements which have to do directly with cylinder construction to
some extent. Cam-shafts are usually simple members carried at the base
of the cylinder in the engine case of Vee type motors by suitable
bearings and having the cams employed to lift the valves attached at
intervals. A typical cam-shaft design is shown at Fig. 133. Two main
methods of cam-shaft construction are followed--that in which the cams
are separate members, keyed and pinned to the shaft, and the other where
the cams are formed integral, the latter being the most suitable for
airplane engine requirements.

[Illustration: Fig. 133.--Typical Cam-Shaft, with Valve Lifting Cams and
Gears to Operate Auxiliary Devices Forged Integrally.]

The cam-shafts shown at Figs. 133 and 134, B, are of the latter type, as
the cams are machined integrally. In this case not only the cams but
also the gears used in driving the auxiliary shafts are forged integral.
This is a more expensive construction, because of the high initial cost
of forging dies as well as the greater expense of machining. It has the
advantage over the other form in which the cams are keyed in place in
that it is stronger, and as the cams are a part of the shaft they can
never become loose, as might be possible where they are separately
formed and assembled on a simple shaft.

[Illustration: Fig. 134.--Important Parts of Duesenberg Aviation Engine.
A--Three Main Bearing Crank-Shaft. B--Cam-Shaft with Integral Cams.
C--Piston and Connecting Rod Assembly. D--Valve Rocker Group. E--Piston.
F--Main Bearing Brasses.]

