The importance of the crank-shaft has been previously considered, and
some of its forms have been shown in views of the motors presented in
earlier portions of this work. The crank-shaft is one of the parts
subjected to the greatest strain and extreme care is needed in its
construction and design, because practically the entire duty of
transmitting the power generated by the motor to the gearset devolves
upon it. Crank-shafts are usually made of high tensile strength steel of
special composition. They may be made in four ways, the most common
being from a drop or machine forging which is formed approximately to
the shape of the finished shaft and in rare instances (experimental
motors only) they may be steel castings. Sometimes they are made from
machine forgings, where considerably more machine work is necessary than
would be the case where the shaft is formed between dies. Some engineers
favor blocking the shaft out of a solid slab of metal and then machining
this rough blank to form. In some radial-cylinder motors of the Gnome
and Le Rhone type the crank-shafts are built up of two pieces, held
together by taper fastenings or bolts.

[Illustration: Fig. 135.--Showing Method of Making Crank-Shaft. A--The
Rough Steel Forging Before Machining. B--The Finished Six-Throw,
Seven-Bearing Crank-Shaft.]

The form of the shaft depends on the number of cylinders and the form
has material influence on the method of construction. For instance, a
four-cylinder crank-shaft could be made by either of the methods
outlined. On the other hand, a three- or six-cylinder shaft is best made
by the machine forging process, because if drop forged or cut from the
blank it will have to be heated and the crank throws bent around so that
the pins will lie in three planes one hundred and twenty degrees apart,
while the other types described need no further attention, as the
crank-pins lie in planes one hundred and eighty degrees apart. This can
be better understood by referring to Fig. 135, which shows a
six-cylinder shaft in the rough and finished stages. At A the
appearance of the machine forging before any of the material is removed
is shown, while at B the appearance of the finished crank-shaft is
clearly depicted. The built-up crank-shaft is seldom used on
multiple-cylinder motors, except in some cases where the crank-shafts
revolve on ball bearings as in some automobile racing engines.

