[Illustration: Fig. 139.--Counterbalanced Crank-Shafts Reduce Engine
Vibration and Permit of Higher Rotative Speeds.]

In some automobile engines, extremely good results have been secured in
obtaining steady running with minimum vibration by counterbalancing the
crank-shafts as outlined at Fig. 139. The shaft at A is a type suitable
for a high speed four-cylinder vertical or an eight-cylinder Vee type.
That at B is for a six-cylinder vertical or a twelve-cylinder V with
scissors joint rods. If counterbalancing crank-shafts helps in an
automobile engine, it should have advantages of some moment in airplane
engines, even though the crank-shaft weight is greater.


BALL-BEARING CRANK-SHAFTS

While crank-shafts are usually supported in plain journals there seems
to be a growing tendency of late to use anti-friction bearings of the
ball type for their support. This is especially noticeable on block
motors where but two main bearings are utilized. When ball bearings are
selected with proper relation to the load which obtains they will give
very satisfactory service. They permit the crank-shaft to turn with
minimum friction, and if properly selected will never need adjustment.
The front end is supported by a bearing which is clamped in such a
manner that it will take a certain amount of load in a direction
parallel to the axis of the shaft, while the rear end is so supported
that the outer race of the bearing has a certain amount of axial freedom
or "float." The inner race or cone of each bearing is firmly clamped
against shoulders on the crank-shaft. At the front end of the
crank-shaft timing gear and a suitable check nut are used, while at the
back end the bearing is clamped by a threaded retention member between
the fly-wheel and a shoulder on the crank-shaft. The fly-wheel is held
in place by a taper and key retention. The ball bearings are carried in
a light housing of bronze or malleable iron, which in turn are held in
the crank-case by bolts. The Renault engine uses ball bearings at front
and rear ends of the crank-shaft, but has plain bearings around
intermediate crank-shaft journals. The rotary engines of the Gnome, Le
Rhone and Clerget forms would not be practical if ball bearings were not
used as the bearing friction and consequent depreciation would be very
high.

