
ENGINE-BASE CONSTRUCTION

One of the important parts of the power plant is the substantial casing
or bed member, which is employed to support the cylinders and
crank-shaft and which is attached directly to the fuselage engine
supporting members. This will vary widely in form, but as a general
thing it is an approximately cylindrical member which may be divided
either vertically or horizontally in two or more parts. Airplane engine
crank-cases are usually made of aluminum, a material which has about the
same strength as cast iron, but which only weighs a third as much. In
rare cases cast iron is employed, but is not favored by most engineers
because of its brittle nature, great weight and low resistance to
tensile stresses. Where exceptional strength is needed alloys of bronze
may be used, and in some cases where engines are produced in large
quantities a portion of the crank-case may be a sheet steel or aluminum
stamping.

[Illustration: Fig. 140.--View of Thomas 135 Horse-Power Aeromotor,
Model 8, Showing Conventional Method of Crank-Case Construction.]

[Illustration: Fig. 141.--Views of Upper Half of Thomas Aeromotor
Crank-Case.]

Crank-cases are always large enough to permit the crank-shaft and parts
attached to it to turn inside and obviously its length is determined by
the number of cylinders and their disposition. The crank-case of the
radial cylinder or double-opposed cylinder engine would be substantially
the same in length. That of a four-cylinder will vary in length with
the method of casting the cylinder. When the four-cylinders are cast in
one unit and a two-bearing crank-shaft is used, the crank-case is a very
compact and short member. When a three-bearing crank-shaft is utilized
and the cylinders are cast in pairs, the engine base is longer than it
would be to support a block casting, but is shorter than one designed to
sustain individual cylinder castings and a five-bearing crank-shaft. It
is now common construction to cast an oil container integral with the
bottom of the engine base and to draw the lubricating oil from it by
means of a pump, as shown at Fig. 140. The arms by which the motor is
supported in the fuselage are substantial-ribbed members cast
integrally with the upper half.

