[Illustration: Fig. 142.--Method of Constructing Eight-Cylinder Vee
Engine, Possible if Aluminum Cylinder and Crank-Case Castings are Used.]

[Illustration: Fig. 143.--Simple and Compact Crank-Case, Possible When
Radial Cylinder Engine Design is Followed.]

The approved method of crank-case construction favored by the majority
of engineers is shown at the top of Fig. 141, bottom side up. The upper
half not only forms a bed for the cylinder but is used to hold the
crank-shaft as well. In the illustration, the three-bearing boxes form
part of the case, while the lower brasses are in the form of separately
cast caps retained by suitable bolts. In the construction outlined the
bottom part of the case serves merely as an oil container and a
protection for the interior mechanism of the motor. The cylinders are
held down by means of studs screwed into the crank-case top, as shown at
Fig. 141, lower view. If the aluminum cylinder motor has any future, the
method of construction outlined at Fig. 142, which has been used in cast
iron for an automobile motor, might be used for an eight-cylinder Vee
engine for airplane use. The simplicity of the crank-case needed for a
revolving cylinder motor and its small weight can be well understood by
examination of the illustration at Fig. 143, which shows the engine
crank-case for the nine-cylinder "Monosoupape" Gnome engine. This
consists of two accurately machined forgings held together by bolts as
clearly indicated.




CHAPTER X

Power Plant Installation--Curtiss OX-2 Engine Mounting and
Operating Rules--Standard S. A. E. Engine Bed Dimensions--
Hall-Scott Engine Installation and Operation--Fuel System Rules
--Ignition System--Water System--Preparations to Start Engine--
Mounting Radial and Rotary Engines--Practical Hints to Locate
Engine Troubles--All Engine Troubles Summarized--Location of
Engine Troubles Made Easy.


The proper installation of the airplane power plant is more important
than is generally supposed, as while these engines are usually well
balanced and run with little vibration, it is necessary that they be
securely anchored and that various connections to the auxiliary parts be
carefully made in order to prevent breakage from vibration and that
attendant risk of motor stoppage while in the air. The type of motor to
be installed determines the method of installation to be followed. As a
general rule six-cylinder vertical engine and eight-cylinder Vee type
are mounted in substantially the same way. The radial, fixed cylinder
forms and the radial, rotary cylinder Gnome and Le Rhone rotary types
require an entirely different method of mounting. Some unconventional
mountings have been devised, notably that shown at Fig. 144, which is a
six-cylinder German engine that is installed in just the opposite way to
that commonly followed. The inverted cylinder construction is not
generally followed because even with pressure feed, dry crank-case type
lubricating system there is considerable danger of over-lubrication and
of oil collecting and carbonizing in the combustion chamber and gumming
up the valve action much quicker than would be the case if the engine
was operated in the conventional upright position. The reason for
mounting an engine in this way is to obtain a lower center of gravity
and also to make for more perfect streamlining of the front end of the
fuselage in some cases. It is rather doubtful if this slight advantage
will compensate for the disadvantages introduced by this unusual
construction. It is not used to any extent now but is presented merely
to show one of the possible systems of installing an airplane engine.

