[Illustration: Fig. 144.--Unconventional Mounting of German Inverted
Cylinder Motor.]

[Illustration: Fig. 145.--How Curtiss Model OX-2 Motor is Installed in
Fuselage of Curtiss Tractor Biplane. Note Similarity of Mounting to
Automobile Power Plant.]

In a number of airplanes of the tractor-biplane type the power plant
installation is not very much different than that which is found in
automobile practice. The illustration at Fig. 145 is a very clear
representation of the method of mounting the Curtiss eight-cylinder 90
H. P. or model OX-2 engine in the fuselage of the Curtiss JN-4 tractor
biplane which is so generally used in the United States as a training
machine. It will be observed that the fuel tank is mounted under a cowl
directly behind the motor and that it feeds the carburetor by means of
a flexible fuel pipe. As the tank is mounted higher than the
carburetor, it will feed that member by gravity. The radiator is mounted
at the front end of the fuselage and connected to the water piping on
the motor by the usual rubber hose connections. An oil pan is placed
under the engine and the top is covered with a hood just as in motor car
practice. The panels of aluminum are attached to the sides of the
fuselage and are supplied with doors which open and provide access to
the carburetor, oil-gauge and other parts of the motor requiring
inspection. The complete installation with the power plant enclosed is
given at Fig. 146, and in this it will be observed that the exhaust
pipes are connected to discharge members that lead the gases above the
top plane. In the engine shown at Fig. 145 the exhaust flows directly
into the air at the sides of the machine through short pipes bolted to
the exhaust gas outlet ports. The installation of the radiator just
back of the tractor screw insures that adequate cooling will be obtained
because of the rapid air flow due to the propeller slip stream.

[Illustration: Fig. 146.--Latest Model of Curtiss JN-4 Training Machine,
Showing Thorough Enclosure of Power Plant and Method of Disposing of the
Exhaust Gases.]

