
INSTALLATION OF CURTISS OX-2 ENGINE

[Illustration: Fig. 147.--Front View of L. W. F. Tractor Biplane
Fuselage, Showing Method of Installing Thomas Aeromotor and Method of
Disposing of Exhaust Gases.]

The following instructions are given in the Curtiss Instruction Book for
installing the OX-2 engine and preparing it for flights, and taken in
connection with the very clear illustration presented no difficulty
should be experienced in understanding the proper installation, and
mounting of this power plant. The bearers or beds should be 2 inches
wide by 3 inches deep, preferably of laminated hard wood, and placed
11-5/8 inches apart. They must be well braced. The six arms of the base
of the motor are drilled for 3/8-inch bolts, and none but this size
should he used.

1. _Anchoring the Motor._ Put the bolts in from the bottom, with a large
washer under the head of each so the head cannot cut into the wood. On
every bolt use a castellated nut and a cotter pin, or an ordinary nut
and a lock washer, so the bolt will not work loose. Always set motor in
place and fasten before attaching any auxiliary apparatus, such as
carburetor, etc.

2. _Inspecting the Ignition-Switch Wires._ The wires leading from the
ignition switch must be properly connected--one end to the motor body
for ground, and the other end to the post on the breaker box of the
magneto.

3. _Filling the Radiator._ Be sure that the water from the radiator
fills the cylinder jackets. Pockets of air may remain in the cylinder
jackets even though the radiator may appear full. Turn the motor over a
few times by hand after filling the radiator, and then add more water if
the radiator will take it. The air pockets, if allowed to remain, may
cause overheating and develop serious trouble when the motor is running.

4. _Filling the Oil Reservoir._ Oil is admitted into the crank-case
through the breather tube at the rear. It is well to strain all oil put
into the crank-case. In filling the oil reservoir be sure to turn the
handle on the oil sight-gauge till it is at right angles with the gauge.
The oil sight-gauge is on the side of the lower half of the crank-case.
Put in about 3 gallons of the best obtainable oil, Mobile B recommended.
It is important to remember that the very best oil is none too good.

