5. _Oiling Exposed Moving Parts._ Oil all rocker-arm bearings before
each flight. A little oil should be applied where the push rods pass
through the stirrup straps.

6. _Filling the Gasoline Tanks._ Be certain that all connections in the
gasoline system are tight.

7. _Turning on the Gasoline._ Open the cock leading from the gasoline
tank to the carburetor.

8. _Charging the Cylinders._ With the ignition switch OFF, prime the
motor by squirting a little gasoline in each exhaust port and then turn
the propeller backward two revolutions. Never open the exhaust valve by
operating the rocker-arm by hand, as the push-rod is liable to come out
of its socket in the cam follower and bend the rocker-arm when the motor
turns over.

9. _Starting the Motor by Hand._ Always retard the spark part way, to
prevent back-firing, by pulling forward the wire attached to the breaker
box. Failure to so retard the spark in starting may result in serious
injury to the operator. Turn on the ignition switch with throttle partly
open; give a quick, strong pull down and outward on the starting crank
or propeller. As soon as the motor is started advance the spark by
releasing the retard wire.

10. _Oil Circulation._ Let the motor run at low speed for a few minutes
in order to establish oil circulation in all bearings. With all parts
functioning properly, the throttle may be opened gradually for warming
up before flight.


STANDARD S.A.E. ENGINE BED DIMENSIONS

The Society of Automotive Engineers have made efforts to standardize
dimensions of bed timbers for supporting power plant in an aeroplane.
Owing to the great difference in length no standardization is thought
possible in this regard. The dimensions recommended are as follows:

Distance between timbers           12     in.   14     in.   16 in.
Width of bed timbers                1-1/2 in.    1-3/4 in.    2 in.
Distance between centers of bolts  13-1/2 in.   15-3/4 in.   18 in.

It will be evident that if any standard of this nature were adopted by
engine builders that the designers of fuselage could easily arrange
their bed timbers to conform to these dimensions, whereas it would be
difficult to have them adhere to any standard longitudinal dimensions
which are much more easily varied in fuselages than the transverse
dimensions are. It, however, should be possible to standardize the
longitudinal positions of the holding down bolts as the engine designer
would still be able to allow himself considerable space fore-and-aft of
the bolts.

