[Illustration: Fig. 154.--Three-Quarter View of Hall-Scott Type A-5 125
Horse-Power Six-Cylinder Engine, with One of the Side Radiators Removed
to Show Installation in Standard Fuselage.]

[Illustration: Fig. 155.--Diagram Showing Proper Installation of
Hall-Scott Type A-5 125 Horse-Power Engine with Pressure Feed Fuel
Supply System.]


IGNITION SWITCHES

Two "DIXIE" switches are furnished with each engine. Both of these
should be installed in the pilot's seat, one controlling the R. H., and
the other the L. H. magneto. By shorting either one or the other it can
be quickly determined if both magnetos, with their respective
spark-plugs, are working correctly. Care should be taken not to use
spark-plugs having _special extensions or long protruding points_. Plugs
giving best results are extremely small with short points.


WATER SYSTEMS

A temperature gauge should be installed in the water pipe, coming
directly from the cylinder nearest the propeller (note illustration
above). This instrument installed in the radiator cap has not always
given satisfactory results. This is especially noticeable when the water
in the radiator becomes low, not allowing it to touch the bulb on the
moto-meter. For ordinary running, it should not indicate over 150
degrees Fahr. In climbing tests, however, a temperature of 160 degrees
Fahr. can be maintained without any ill effects upon the engine. In case
the engine becomes overheated, the indicator will register above 180
degrees Fahr., in which case it should be stopped immediately.
Overheating is most generally caused by retarded spark, excessive carbon
in the cylinders, insufficient lubrication, improperly timed valves,
lack of water, clogging of water system in any way which would obstruct
the free circulation of the water.

Overheating will cause the engine to knock, with possible damaging
results. Suction pipes should be made out of thin tubing, and run within
a quarter or an eighth of an inch of each other, so that when a hose is
placed over the two, it will not be possible to suck together. This is
often the case when a long rubber hose is used, which causes
overheating. Radiators should be flushed out and cleaned thoroughly
quite often. A dirty radiator may cause overheating.

