When filling the radiator it is very important to remove the plug on top
of the water pump until water appears. This is to avoid air pockets
being formed in the circulating system, which might not only heat up the
engine, but cause considerable damage. All water pump hoses and
connections should be tightly taped and shellacked after the engine is
properly installed in the plane. The greatest care should be taken when
making engine installation _not_ to use smaller inside diameter hose
connection than water pump suction end casting. One inch and a quarter
inside diameter should be used on A-7 and A-5 motors, while nothing less
than one inch and a half inside diameter hose or tubing on all A-7a and
A-5a engines. It is further important to have light spun tubing, void of
any sharp turns, leads from pump to radiator and cylinder water outlet
to radiator. In other words, the water circulation through the engine
must be as little restricted as possible. Be sure no light hose is used,
that will often suck together when engine is started. To thoroughly
drain the water from the entire system, open the drain cock at the
lowest side of the water pump.


PREPARATIONS TO START ENGINE

Always replenish gasoline tanks through a strainer which is clean. This
strainer must catch all water and other impurities in the gasoline. Pour
at least three gallons of fresh oil into the lower crank-case. Oil all
rocker arms through oilers upon rocker arm housing caps. Be sure
radiators are filled within one inch of the top.

After all the parts are oiled, and the tanks filled, the following must
be looked after before starting: See if crank-shaft flange is tight on
shaft. See if propeller bolts are tight and evenly drawn up. See if
propeller bolts are wired. See if propeller is trued up to within 1/8".

Every four days the magnetos should be oiled if the engine is in daily
use.

Every month all cylinder hold-down nuts should be gone over to ascertain
if they are tight. (Be sure to recotter nuts.)

