See if magnetos are bolted on tight and wired.

See if magneto cables are in good condition.

See if rocker arm tappets have a .020" clearance from valve stem when
valve is seated.

See if tappet clamp screws are tight and cottered.

See if all gasoline, oil, water pipes and connections are in perfect
condition.

Air on gas line should be tested for leaks.

Pump at least three pounds air pressure into gasoline tank.

After making sure that above rules have been observed, test compression
of cylinders by turning propeller.

"DO NOT FORGET TO SHORT BOTH MAGNETOS"

Be sure all compression release and priming cocks do not leak
compression. If they do, replace same with a new one immediately, as
this might cause premature firing.

Open priming cocks and squirt some gasoline into each.

Close cocks.

Open compression release cocks.

Open throttle slightly.

If using Berling magnetos they should be three-quarters advanced.

If all the foregoing directions have been carefully followed, the engine
is ready for starting.

In cranking engine either by starting crank, or propeller, it is
essential to throw it over compression quickly.

Immediately upon starting, close compression release cocks.

When engine is running, advance magnetos.

After it has warmed up, short one magneto and then the other, to be sure
both magnetos and spark-plugs are firing properly. If there is a miss,
the fouled plug must be located and cleaned. There is a possibility that
the jets in the carburetor are stopped up. If this is the case, do not
attempt to clean same with any sharp instrument. If this is done, it
might change the opening in the jets, thus spoiling the adjustment. Jets
and nozzles should be blown out with air or steam.

An open intake or exhaust valve, which might have become sluggish or
stuck from carbon, might cause trouble. Be sure to remedy this at once
by using a little coal-oil or kerosene on same, working the valve by
hand until it becomes free. We recommend using graphite on valve stems
mixed with oil to guard against sticking or undue wear.

