
INSTALLING ROTARY AND RADIAL CYLINDER ENGINES

[Illustration: Fig. 156.--Diagram Defining Installation of Gnome
"Monosoupape" Motor in Tractor Biplane. Note Necessary Piping for Fuel,
Oil, and Air Lines.]

When rotary engines are installed simple steel stamping or "spiders,"
are attached to the fuselage to hold the fixed crank-shaft. Inasmuch as
the motor projects clear of the fuselage proper there is plenty of room
back of the front spider plate to install the auxiliary parts such as
the oil pump, air pump and ignition magneto and also the fuel and oil
containers. The diagram given at Fig. 156 shows how a Gnome
"monosoupape" engine is installed on the anchorage plates and it also
outlines clearly the piping necessary to convey the oil and fuel and
also the air-piping needed to put pressure on both fuel and oil tanks to
insure positive supply of these liquids which may be carried in tanks
placed lower than the motor in some installations. The diagram given at
Figs. 157 and 158 shows other mountings of Gnome engines and are
self-explanatory. The simple mounting possible when the Anzani
ten-cylinder radial fixed type engine is used given at Fig. 159. The
front end of the fuselage is provided with a substantial pressed steel
plate having members projecting from it which may be bolted to the
longerons. The bolts that hold the two halves of the crank-case together
project through the steel plate and hold the engine securely to the
front end of the fuselage.

[Illustration: Fig. 157.--Showing Two Methods of Placing Propeller on
Gnome Rotary Motor.]


PRACTICAL HINTS TO LOCATE ENGINE TROUBLES

[Illustration: Fig. 158.--How Gnome Rotary Motor May Be Attached to
Airplane Fuselage Members.]

One who is not thoroughly familiar with engine construction will seldom
locate troubles by haphazard experimenting and it is only by a
systematic search that the cause can be discovered and the defects
eliminated. In this chapter the writer proposes to outline some of the
most common power-plant troubles and to give sufficient advice to enable
those who are not thoroughly informed to locate them by a logical
process of elimination. The internal-combustion motor, which is the
power plant of all gasoline automobiles as well as airplanes, is
composed of a number of distinct groups, which in turn include distinct
components. These various appliances are so closely related to each
other that defective action of any one may interrupt the operation of
the entire power plant. Some of the auxiliary groups are more necessary
than others and the power plant will continue to operate for a time even
after the failure of some important parts of some of the auxiliary
groups. The gasoline engine in itself is a complete mechanism, but it
is evident that it cannot deliver any power without some means of
supplying gas to the cylinders and igniting the compressed gas charge
after it has been compressed in the cylinders. From this it is patent
that the ignition and carburetion systems are just as essential parts of
the power plant as the piston, connecting rod, or cylinder of the motor.
The failure of either the carburetor or igniting means to function
properly will be immediately apparent by faulty action of the power
plant.

