[Illustration: Fig. 159.--How Anzani Ten-Cylinder Radial Engine is
Installed to Plate Securely Attached to Front End of Tractor Airplane
Fuselage.]

To insure that the motor will continue to operate it is necessary to
keep it from overheating by some form of cooling system and to supply
oil to the moving parts to reduce friction. The cooling and lubrication
groups are not so important as carburetion and ignition, as the engine
would run for a limited period of time even should the cooling system
fail or the oil supply cease. It would only be a few moments, however,
before the engine would overheat if the cooling system was at fault, and
the parts seize if the lubricating system should fail. Any derangement
in the carburetor or ignition mechanism would manifest itself at once
because the engine operation would be affected, but a defect in the
cooling or oiling system would not be noticed so readily.

The careful aviator will always inspect the motor mechanism before
starting on a trip of any consequence, and if inspection is carefully
carried out and loose parts tightened it is seldom that irregular
operation will be found due to actual breakage of any of the components
of the mechanism. Deterioration due to natural causes matures slowly,
and sufficient warning is always given when parts begin to wear so
satisfactory repairs may be promptly made before serious derangement or
failure is manifested.


A TYPICAL ENGINE STOPPAGE ANALYZED

Before describing the points that may fail in the various auxiliary
systems it will be well to assume a typical case of engine failure and
show the process of locating the trouble in a systematic manner by
indicating the various steps which are in logical order and which could
reasonably be followed. In any case of engine failure the ignition
system, motor compression, and carburetor should be tested first. If the
ignition system is functioning properly one should determine the amount
of compression in all cylinders and if this is satisfactory the
carbureting group should be tested. If the ignition system is working
properly and there is a decided resistance in the cylinders when the
propeller is turned, proving that there is good compression, one may
suspect the carburetor.

