[Illustration: Fig. 160.--Side Elevation of Thomas 135 Horse-Power
Airplane Engine, Giving Important Dimensions.]

If the carburetor appears to be in good condition, the trouble may be
caused by the ignition being out of time, which condition is possible
when the magneto timing gear or coupling is attached to the armature
shaft by a taper and nut retention instead of the more positive key or
taper-pin fastening. It is possible that the inlet manifold may be
broken or perforated, that the exhaust valve is stuck on its seat
because of a broken or bent stem, broken or loose cam, or failure of the
cam-shaft drive because the teeth are stripped from the engine shaft or
cam-shaft gears; or because the key or other fastening on either gear
has failed, allowing that member to turn independently of the shaft to
which it normally is attached. The gasoline feed pipe may be clogged or
broken, the fuel supply may be depleted, or the shut-off cock in the
gasoline line may have jarred closed. The gasoline filter may be filled
with dirt or water which prevents passage of the fuel.

[Illustration: Fig. 161.--Front Elevation of Thomas-Morse 135
Horse-Power Aeromotor, Showing Main Dimensions.]

The defects outlined above, except the failure of the gasoline supply,
are very rare, and if the container is found to contain fuel and the
pipe line to be clear to the carburetor, it is safe to assume the
vaporizing device is at fault. If fuel continually runs out of the
mixing chamber the carburetor is said to be flooded. This condition
results from failure of the shut-off needle to seat properly or from a
punctured hollow metal float or a gasoline-soaked cork float. It is
possible that not enough gasoline is present in the float chamber. If
the passage controlled by the float-needle valve is clogged or if the
float was badly out of adjustment, this contingency would be probable.
When the carburetor is examined, if the gasoline level appears to be at
the proper height, one may suspect that a particle of lint, or dust, or
fine scale, or rust from the gasoline tank has clogged the bore of the
jet in the mixing chamber.

