[Illustration: Fig. 162.--Front and Side Elevations of Sturtevant
Airplane Engine, Giving Principal Dimensions to Facilitate
Installation.]


CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE FAILURE OF IGNITION SYSTEM

If the first test of the motor had showed that the compression was as it
should be and that there were no serious mechanical defects and there
was plenty of gasoline at the carburetor, this would have demonstrated
that the ignition system was not functioning properly. If a battery is
employed to supply current the first step is to take the spark-plugs out
of the cylinders and test the system by turning over the engine by hand.
If there is no spark in any of the plugs, this may be considered a
positive indication that there is a broken main current lead from the
battery, a defective ground connection, a loose battery terminal, or a
broken connector. If none of these conditions are present, it is safe to
say that the battery is no longer capable of delivering current. While
magneto ignition is generally used on airplane engines, there is apt to
be some development of battery ignition, especially on engines equipped
with electric self-starters which are now being experimented with. The
spark-plugs may be short circuited by cracked insulation or carbon and
oil deposits around the electrode. The secondary wires may be broken or
have defective insulation which permits the current to ground to some
metal part of the fuselage or motor. The electrodes of the spark-plug
may be too far apart to permit a spark to overcome the resistance of the
compressed gas, even if a spark jumps the air space, when the plug is
laid on the cylinder.

If magnetos are fitted as is usually the case at present and a spark is
obtained between the points of the plug and that device or the wire
leading to it from the magneto is in proper condition, the trouble is
probably caused by the magneto being out of time. This may result if the
driving gear is loose on the armature-shaft or crank-shaft, and is a
rare occurrence. If no spark is produced at the plugs the secondary wire
may be broken, the ground wire may make contact with some metallic
portion of the chassis before it reaches the switch, the carbon
collecting brushes may be broken or not making contact, the contact
points of the make-and-break device may be out of adjustment, the wiring
may be attached to wrong terminals, the distributor filled with metallic
particles, carbon, dust or oil accumulations, the distributor contacts
may not be making proper connection because of wear and there may be a
more serious derangement, such as a burned out secondary winding or a
punctured condenser.

