If the motor runs intermittently, _i.e._, starts and runs only a few
revolutions, aside from the conditions previously outlined, defective
operation may be due to seizing between parts because of insufficient
oil or deficient cooling, too much oil in the crank-case which fouls the
cylinder after the crank-shaft has revolved a few turns, and
derangements in the ignition or carburetion systems that may be easily
remedied. There are a number of defective conditions which may exist in
the ignition group, that will result in "skipping" or irregular
operation and the following points should be considered first: weak
source of current due to worn out dry cells or discharged storage
batteries; weak magnets in magneto, or defective contacts at magneto;
dirt in magneto distributor or poor contact at collecting brushes. Dirty
or cracked insulator at spark-plug will cause short circuit and can
only be detected by careful examination. The following points should
also be checked over when the plug is inspected: Excessive space between
electrodes, points too close together, loose central electrodes, or
loose point on plug body, soot or oil particles between electrodes, or
on the surface of the insulator, cracked insulator, oil or water on
outside of insulator. Short circuits in the condenser or internal wiring
of induction coils or magnetos, which are fortunately not common, can
seldom be remedied except at the factory where these devices were made.
If an engine stops suddenly and the defect is in the ignition system the
trouble is usually never more serious than a broken or loose wire. This
may be easily located by inspecting the wiring at the terminals.
Irregular operation or misfiring is harder to locate because the trouble
can only be found after the many possible defective conditions have been
checked over, one by one.


COMMON DEFECTS IN FUEL SYSTEMS

Defective carburetion often causes misfiring or irregular operation. The
common derangement of the components of the fuel system that are common
enough to warrant suspicion and the best methods for their location
follows: First, disconnect the feed pipe from the carburetor and see if
the gasoline flows freely from the tank. If the stream coming out of the
pipe is not the full size of the orifice it is an indication that the
pipe is clogged with dirt or that there is an accumulation of rust,
scale, or lint in the strainer screens of the filter. It is also
possible that the fuel shut-off valve may be wholly or partly closed. If
the gasoline flows by gravity the liquid may be air bound in the tank,
while if a pressure-feed system is utilized the tank may leak so that it
does not retain pressure; the check valve retaining the pressure may be
defective or the pipe conveying the air or gas under pressure to the
tank may be clogged.

