If the gasoline flows from the pipe in a steady stream the carburetor
demands examination. There may be dirt or water in the float chamber,
which will constrict the passage between the float chamber and the spray
nozzle, or a particle of foreign matter may have entered the nozzle and
stopped up the fine holes therein. The float may bind on its guide, the
needle valve regulating the gasoline-inlet opening in bowl may stick to
its seat. Any of the conditions mentioned would cut down the gasoline
supply and the engine would not receive sufficient quantities of gas.
The air-valve spring may be weak or the air valve broken. The
gasoline-adjusting needle may be loose and jar out of adjustment, or the
air-valve spring-adjusting nuts may be such a poor fit on the stem that
adjustments will not be retained. These instructions apply only to
carburetors having air valves and mixture regulating means which are
used only in rare instances in airplane work. Air may leak in through
the manifold, due to a porous casting, or leaky joints in a built up
form and dilute the mixture. The air-intake dust screen may be so
clogged with dirt and lint that not enough air will pass through the
mesh. Water or sediment in the gasoline will cause misfiring because the
fuel feed varies when the water or dirt constricts the standpipe bore.

It is possible that the carburetor may be out of adjustment. If clouds
of black smoke are emitted at the exhaust pipe it is positive indication
that too much gasoline is being supplied the mixture and the supply
should be cut down by screwing in the needle valve on types where this
method of regulation is provided, and by making sure that the fuel level
is at the proper height, or that the proper nozzle is used in those
forms where the spray nozzle has no means of adjustment. If the mixture
contains too much air there will be a pronounced popping back in the
carburetor. This may be overcome by screwing in the air-valve adjustment
so the spring tension is increased or by slightly opening up the
gasoline-supply regulation needle. When a carburetor is properly
adjusted and the mixture delivered the cylinder burns properly, the
exhaust gas will be clean and free from the objectionable odor present
when gasoline is burned in excess.

