The character of combustion may be judged by the color of the flame
which issues from it when the engine is running with an open throttle
after nightfall. If the flame is red, it indicates too much gasoline. If
yellowish, it shows an excess of air, while a properly proportioned
mixture will be evidenced by a pronounced blue flame, such as given by a
gas-stove burner.

The Duplex Model O. D. Zenith carburetor used upon most of the six- and
eight-cylinder airplane engines consists of a single float chamber, and
a single air intake, joined to two separate and distinct spray nozzles,
venturi and idling adjustments. It is to be noted that as the carburetor
barrels are arranged side by side, both valves are mounted on the same
shaft, and work in unison through a single operating lever. It is not
necessary to alter their position. In order to make the engine idle
well, it is essential that the ignition, especially the spark-plugs,
should be in good condition. The gaskets between carburetor and
manifold, and between manifold and cylinders should be absolutely
air-tight. The adjustment for low speed on the carburetor is made by
turning in or out the two knurled screws, placed one on each side of the
float chamber. After starting the engine and allowing it to become
thoroughly warmed, one side of the carburetor should be adjusted so that
the three cylinders it affects fire properly at low speed. The other
side should be adjusted in the same manner until all six cylinders fire
perfectly at low speed. As the adjustment is changed on the knurled
screw a difference in the idling of the engine should be noticed. If the
engine begins to run evenly or speeds up it shows that the mixture
becomes right in its proportion.

Be sure the butterfly throttle is closed as far as possible by screwing
out the stop screw which regulates the closed position for idling. Care
should be taken to have the butterfly held firmly against this stop
screw at all times while idling engine. If three cylinders seem to run
irregularly after changing the position of the butterfly, still another
adjustment may have to be made with the knurled screw. Unscrewing this
makes the mixture leaner. Screwing in closes off some of the air supply
to the idling jet, making it richer. After one side has been made to
idle satisfactorily repeat the same procedure with the opposite three
cylinders. In other words, each side should be idled independently to
about the same speed.

