Remember that the main jet and compensating jet have no appreciable
effect on the idling of the engine. The idling mixture is drawn directly
through the opening determined by the knurled screw and enters the
carburetor barrel through the small hole at the edge of each butterfly.
This is called the priming hole and is only effective during idling.
Beyond that point the suction is transferred to the main jet and
compensator, which controls the power of the engine beyond the idling
position of the throttle.


DEFECTS IN OILING SYSTEMS

While troubles existing in the ignition or carburetion groups are
usually denoted by imperfect operation of the motor, such as lost power,
and misfiring, derangements of the lubrication or cooling systems are
usually evident by overheating, diminution in engine capacity, or noisy
operation. Overheating may be caused by poor carburetion as much as by
deficient cooling or insufficient oiling. When the oiling group is not
functioning as it should the friction between the motor parts produces
heat. If the cooling system is in proper condition, as will be evidenced
by the condition of the water in the radiator, and the carburetion group
appears to be in good condition, the overheating is probably caused by
some defect in the oiling system.

The conditions that most commonly result in poor lubrication are:
Insufficient oil in the engine crank-case or sump, broken or clogged oil
pipes, screen at filter filled with lint or dirt, broken oil pump, or
defective oil-pump drive. The supply of oil may be reduced by a
defective inlet or discharge-check valve at the mechanical oiler or worn
pumps. A clogged oil passage or pipe leading to an important bearing
point will cause trouble because the oil cannot get between the working
surfaces. It is well to remember that much of the trouble caused by
defective oiling may be prevented by using only the best grades of
lubricant, and even if all parts of the oil system are working properly,
oils of poor quality will cause friction and overheating.

