
DEFECTS IN COOLING SYSTEMS OUTLINED

Cooling systems are very simple and are not liable to give trouble as a
rule if the radiator is kept full of clean water and the circulation is
not impeded. When overheating is due to defective cooling the most
common troubles are those that impede water circulation. If the radiator
is clogged or the piping of water jackets filled with rust or sediment
the speed of water circulation will be slow, which will also be the case
if the water pump or its driving means fail. Any scale or sediment in
the water jackets or in the piping or radiator passages will reduce the
heat conductivity of the metal exposed to the air, and the water will
not be cooled as quickly as though the scale was not present.

The rubber hose often used in making the flexible connections demanded
between the radiator and water manifolds of the engine may deteriorate
inside and particles of rubber hang down that will reduce the area of
the passage. The grease from the grease cups mounted on the pump-shaft
bearing to lubricate that member often finds its way into the water
system and rots the inner walls of the rubber hose, this resulting in
strips of the partly decomposed rubber lining hanging down and
restricting the passage. The cooling system is prone to overheat after
antifreezing solutions of which calcium chloride forms a part have been
used. This is due to the formation of crystals of salt in the radiator
passages or water jackets, and these crystals can only be dissolved by
suitable chemical means, or removed by scraping when the construction
permits.

Overheating is often caused by some condition in the fuel system that
produces too rich or too lean mixture. Excess gasoline may be supplied
if any of the following conditions are present: Bore of spray nozzle or
standpipe too large, auxiliary air-valve spring too tight, gasoline
level too high, loose regulating valve, fuel-soaked cork float,
punctured sheet-metal float, dirt under float control shut-off valve or
insufficient air supply because of a clogged air screen. If pressure
feed is utilized there may be too much pressure in the tank, or the
float controlled mechanism operating the shut-off in the float bowl of
the carburetor may not act quickly enough.

