
SOME CAUSES OF NOISY OPERATION

There are a number of power-plant derangements which give positive
indication because of noisy operation. Any knocking or rattling sounds
are usually produced by wear in connecting rods or main bearings of the
engine, though sometimes a sharp metallic knock, which is very much the
same as that produced by a loose bearing, is due to carbon deposits in
the cylinder heads, or premature ignition due to advanced spark-time
lever. Squeaking sounds invariably indicate dry bearings, and whenever
such a sound is heard it should be immediately located and oil applied
to the parts thus denoting their dry condition. Whistling or blowing
sounds are produced by leaks, either in the engine itself or in the gas
manifolds. A sharp whistle denotes the escape of gas under pressure and
is usually caused by a defective packing or gasket that seals a portion
of the combustion chamber or that is used for a joint as the exhaust
manifold. A blowing sound indicates a leaky packing in crank-case.
Grinding noises in the motor are usually caused by the timing gears and
will obtain if these gears are dry or if they have become worn. Whenever
a loud knocking sound is heard careful inspection should be made to
locate the cause of the trouble. Much harm may be done in a few minutes
if the engine is run with loose connecting rod or bearings that would be
prevented by taking up the wear or looseness between the parts by some
means of adjustment.


BRIEF SUMMARY OF HINTS FOR STARTING ENGINE

First make sure that all cylinders have compression. To ascertain this,
open pet cocks of all cylinders except the one to be tested, crank over
motor and see that a strong opposition to cranking is met with once in
two revolutions. If motor has no pet cocks, crank and notice that
oppositions are met at equal distances, two to every revolution of the
starting crank in a four-cylinder motor. If compression is lacking,
examine the parts of the cylinder or cylinders at fault in the following
order, trying to start the motor whenever any one fault is found and
remedied. See that the valve push rods or rocker arms do not touch valve
stems for more than approximately 1/2 revolution in every 2 revolutions,
and that there is not more than .010 to .020 inch clearance between them
depending on the make of the motor. Make sure that the exhaust valve
seats. To determine this examine the spring and see that it is connected
to the valve stem properly. Take out valve and see that there is no
obstruction, such as carbon, on its seat. See that valve works freely in
its guide. Examine inlet valve in same manner. Listen for hissing sound
while cranking motor for leaks at other places.

