
_Motor Races, Will Not Throttle Down_

Air Leak in Inlet Piping.
Air Leak Through Inlet Valve Guides.
Control Rods Broken.
Defective Induction Pipe Joints.
Leaky Carburetor Flange Packing.
Throttle Not Closing.
Poor Slow Speed Adjustment (Zenith Carburetor).


_Motor Misfires_

Carburetor Float Chamber Getting Dry.
Water or Dirt in Gasoline.
Poor Gasoline Adjustment (Rotary Motors).
Not Enough Gasoline in Float Chamber.
Too Much Gasoline, Carburetor Flooding.
Incorrect Jet or Choke (Zenith Carburetor).
Broken Cylinder Head Packing Between Cylinders.


_Noisy Operation_

Popping or Blowing Back in Carburetor.
Incorrectly Timed Inlet Valves.
Inlet Valve Not Seating.
Defective Inlet Valve Spring.
Dirt Under Inlet Valve Seat.
Not Enough Gasoline (Open Needle Valve).
Muffler or Manifold Explosions.
Mixture Not Exploding Regularly.
Exhaust Valve Sticking.
Dirt Under Exhaust Valve Seat.




CHAPTER XI

Tools for Adjusting and Erecting--Forms of Wrenches--Use and
Care of Files--Split Pin Removal and Installation--Complete
Chisel Set--Drilling Machines--Drills, Reamers, Taps and Dies--
Measuring Tools--Micrometer Calipers and Their Use--Typical Tool
Outfits--Special Hall-Scott Tools--Overhauling Airplane Engines
--Taking Engine Down--Defects in Cylinders--Carbon Deposits,
Cause and Prevention--Use of Carbon Scrapers--Burning Out Carbon
with Oxygen--Repairing Scored Cylinders--Valve Removal and
Inspection--Reseating and Truing Valves--Valve Grinding
Processes--Depreciation in Valve Operating System--Piston
Troubles--Piston Ring Manipulation--Fitting Piston Rings--
Wrist-Pin Wear--Inspection and Refitting of Engine Bearings--
Scraping Brasses to Fit--Fitting Connecting Rods--Testing for
Bearing Parallelism--Cam-Shafts and Timing Gears--Precautions in
Reassembling Parts.


TOOLS FOR ADJUSTING AND ERECTING

[Illustration: Fig. 163.--Practical Hand Tools Useful in Dismantling and
Repairing Airplane Engines.]

A very complete outfit of small tools, some of which are furnished as
part of the tool equipment of various engines are shown in group at Fig.
163. This group includes all of the tools necessary to complete a very
practical kit and it is not unusual for the mechanic who is continually
dismantling and erecting engines to possess even a larger assortment
than indicated. The small bench vise provided is a useful auxiliary that
can be clamped to any convenient bench or table or even fuselage
longeron in an emergency and should have jaws at least three inches wide
and capable of opening four or five inches. It is especially useful in
that it will save trips to the bench vises, as it has adequate capacity
to handle practically any of the small parts that need to be worked on
when making repairs. A blow torch, tinner's snips and soldering copper
are very useful in sheet metal work and in making any repairs requiring
the use of solder. The torch can be used in any operation requiring a
source of heat. The large box wrench shown under the vise is used for
removing large special nuts and sometimes has one end of the proper size
to fit the valve chamber cap. The piston ring removers are easily made
from thin strips of sheet metal securely brazed or soldered to a light
wire handle. These are used in sets of three for removing and applying
piston rings in a manner to be indicated. The uses of the wrenches,
screw drivers, and pliers shown are known to all and the variety
outlined should be sufficient for all ordinary work of restoration. The
wrench equipment is very complete, including a set of open end
S-wrenches to fit all standard bolts, a spanner wrench, socket or box
wrenches for bolts that are inaccessible with the ordinary type,
adjustable end wrenches, a thin monkey wrench of medium size, a bicycle
wrench for handling small nuts and bolts, a Stillson wrench for pipe and
a large adjustable monkey wrench for the stubborn fastenings of large
size.

