Four different types of pliers are shown, one being a parallel jaw type
with size cutting attachment, while the other illustrated near it is a
combination parallel jaw type adapted for use on round work as well as
in handling flat stock. The most popular form of pliers is the
combination pattern shown beneath the socket wrench set. This is made of
substantial drop forgings having a hinged joint that can be set so that
a very wide opening at the jaws is possible. These can be used on round
work and for wire cutting as well as for handling flat work. Round nose
pliers are very useful also.

A very complete set of files, including square, half round, mill, flat
bastard, three-cornered and rat tail are also necessary. A hacksaw frame
and a number of saws, some with fine teeth for tubing and others with
coarser teeth for bar or solid stock will be found almost indispensable.
A complete punch and chisel set should be provided, samples of which are
shown in the group while the complete outfit is outlined in another
illustration. A number of different forms and sizes of chisels are
necessary, as one type is not suitable for all classes of work. The
adjustable end wrenches can be used in many places where a monkey wrench
cannot be fitted and where it will be difficult to use a wrench having a
fixed opening. The Stillson pipe wrench is useful in turning studs,
round rods, and pipes that cannot be turned by any other means. A
complete shop kit must necessarily include various sizes for Stillson
and monkey wrenches, as no one size can be expected to handle the wide
range of work the engine repairman must cope with. Three sizes of each
form of wrench can be used, one, a 6 inch, is as small as is needed
while, a 12 inch tool will handle almost any piece of pipe or nut used
in engine construction.

Three or four sizes of hammers should be provided, according to
individual requirement, these being small riveting, medium and
heavyweight machinist's hammers. A very practical tool of this nature
for the repair shop can be used as a hammer, screw driver or pry iron.
It is known as the "Spartan" hammer and is a tool steel drop forging in
one piece having the working surfaces properly hardened and tempered
while the metal is distributed so as to give a good balance to the head
and a comfortable grip to the handle. The hammer head provides a
positive and comfortable T-handle when the tool is used as a screw
driver or "tommy" bar. Machinist's hammers are provided with three types
of heads, these being of various weights. The form most commonly used is
termed the "ball pein" on account of the shape of the portion used for
riveting. The straight pein is just the same as the cross pein, except
that in the latter the straight portion is at right angles to the hammer
handle, while in the former it is parallel to that member.

