
FORMS OF WRENCHES

Wrenches have been made in infinite variety and there are a score or
more patterns of different types of adjustable socket and off-set
wrenches. The various wrench types that differ from the more
conventional monkey wrenches or those of the Stillson pattern are shown
at Fig. 164. The "perfect handle" is a drop forged open end form
provided with a wooden handle similar to that used on a monkey wrench in
order to provide a better grip for the hand. The "Saxon" wrench is a
double alligator form, so called because the jaws are in the form of a
V-groove having one side of the V plain, while the other is serrated in
order to secure a tight grip on round objects. In the form shown, two
jaws of varying sizes are provided, one for large work, the other to
handle the smaller rods. One of the novel features in connection with
this wrench is the provision of a triple die block in the centre of the
handle which is provided with three most commonly used of the standard
threads including 5/16-inch-18, 3/8-inch-16, and 1/2-inch-13. This is
useful in cleaning up burred threads on bolts before they are replaced,
as burring is unavoidable if it has been necessary to drive them out
with a hammer. The "Lakeside" wrench has an adjustable pawl engaging
with one of a series of notches by which the opening may be held in any
desired position.

[Illustration: Fig. 164.--Wrenches are Offered in Many Forms.]

Ever since the socket wrench was invented it has been a popular form
because it can be used in many places where the ordinary open end or
monkey wrench cannot be applied owing to lack of room for the head of
the wrench. A typical set which has been made to fit in a very small
space is shown at D. It consists of a handle, which is nickel-plated and
highly polished, a long extension bar, a universal joint and a number of
case hardened cold drawn steel sockets to fit all commonly used standard
nuts and bolt heads. Two screw-driver bits, one small and the other
large to fit the handle, and a long socket to fit spark-plugs are also
included in this outfit. The universal joint permits one to remove nuts
in a position that would be inaccessible to any other form of wrench, as
it enables the socket to be turned even if the handle is at one side of
an intervening obstruction.

