The "Pick-up" wrench, shown at E, is used for spark-plugs and the upper
end of the socket is provided with a series of grooves into which a
suitable blade carried by the handle can be dropped. The handle is
pivoted to the top of the socket in such a way that the blades may be
picked up out of the grooves by lifting on the end of the handle and
dropped in again when the handle is swung around to the proper point to
get another hold on the socket. The "Miller" wrench shown at F, is a
combination socket and open end type, made especially for use with
spark-plugs. Both the open end and the socket are convenient. The
"Handy" set shown at G, consists of a number of thin stamped wrenches of
steel held together in a group by a simple clamp fitting, which enables
either end of any one of the four double wrenches to be brought into
play according to the size of the nut to be turned. The "Cronk" wrench
shown at H, is a simple stamping having an alligator opening at one end
and a stepped opening capable of handling four different sizes of
standard nuts or bolt heads at the other. Such wrenches are very cheap
and are worth many times their small cost, especially for fitting nuts
where there is not sufficient room to admit the more conventional
pattern. The "Starrett" wrench set, which is shown at I, consists of a
ratchet handle together with an extension bar and universal joint, a
spark-plug socket, a drilling attachment which takes standard square
shank drills from 1/8-inch to 1/2-inch in diameter, a double ended
screw-driver bit and several adjustments to go with the drilling
attachment. Twenty-eight assorted cold drawn steel sockets similar in
design to those shown at D, to fit all standard sizes of square and
hexagonal headed nuts are also included. The reversible ratchet handle,
which may be slipped over the extension bar or the universal joint and
which is also adapted to take the squared end of any one of the sockets
is exceptionally useful in permitting, as it does, the instant release
of pressure when it is desired to swing the handle back to get another
hold on the nut. The socket wrench sets are usually supplied in hard
wood cases or in leather bags so that they may be kept together and
protected against loss or damage. With a properly selected socket wrench
set, either of the ratchet handle or T-handle form, any nut on the
engine may be reached and end wrenches will not be necessary.

