
SPLIT PIN REMOVAL AND INSERTION

One of the most widely used of the locking means to prevent nuts or
bolts from becoming loose is the simple split pin, sometimes called a
"cotter pin." These can be handled very easily if the special pliers
shown at Fig. 166, A, are used. They have a curved jaw that permits of
grasping the pin firmly and inserting it in the hole ready to receive
it. It is not easy to insert these split pins by other means because the
ends are usually spread out and it is hard to enter the pin in the hole.
With the cotter pin pliers the ends may be brought close together and as
the plier jaws are small the pin may be easily pushed in place. Another
use of this plier, also indicated, is to bend over the ends of the split
pin in order to prevent it from falling out. To remove these pins a
simple curved lever, as shown at Fig. 166, B, is used. This has one end
tapering to a point and is intended to be inserted in the eye of the
cotter pin, the purchase offered by the handle permitting of ready
removal of the pin after the ends have been closed by the cotter pin
pliers.


COMPLETE CHISEL SET

[Illustration: Fig. 166.--Outlining Use of Cotter Pin Pliers, Spring
Winder, and Showing Practical Outfit of Chisels.]

A complete chisel set suitable for repair shop use is also shown at Fig.
166. The type at C is known as a "cape" chisel and has a narrow cutting
point and is intended to chip keyways, remove metal out of corners and
for all other work where the broad cutting edge chisel, shown at D,
cannot be used. The form with the wide cutting edge is used in chipping,
cutting sheet metal, etc. At E, a round nose chisel used in making oil
ways is outlined, while a similar tool having a pointed cutting edge and
often used for the same purpose is shown at F. The centre punch depicted
at G, is very useful for marking parts either for identification or for
drilling. In addition to the chisels shown, a number of solid punches
or drifts resembling very much that shown at E, except that the point is
blunt should be provided to drive out taper pins, bolts, rivets, and
other fastenings of this nature. These should be provided in the common
sizes. A complete set of real value would start at 1/8-inch and increase
by increments of 1/32-inch up to 1/2-inch. A simple spring winder is
shown at Fig. 166, H, this making it possible for the repairman to wind
coil springs, either on the lathe or in the vise. It will handle a
number of different sizes of wire and can be set to space the coils as
desired.

