
DRILLS, REAMERS, TAPS AND DIES

In addition to the larger machine tools and the simple hand tools
previously described, an essential item of equipment of any engine or
plane repair shop, even in cases where the ordinary machine tools are
not provided, is a complete outfit of drills, reamers, and threading
tools. Drills are of two general classes, the flat and the twist drills.
The flat drill has an angle between cutting edges of about 110 degrees
and is usually made from special steel commercially known as drill rod.

A flat drill cannot be fed into the work very fast because it removes
metal by a scraping, rather than a cutting process. The twist drill in
its simplest form is cylindrical throughout the entire length and has
spiral flutes which are ground off at the end to form the cutting lip
and which also serve to carry the metal chips out of the holes. The
simplest form of twist drill used is shown at Fig. 168, C, and is known
as a "chuck" drill, because it must be placed in a suitable chuck to
turn it. A twist drill removes metal by cutting and it is not necessary
to use a heavy feed as the drill will tend to feed itself into the work.

[Illustration: Fig. 168.--Forms of Drills Used in Hand and Power
Drilling Machines.]

Larger drills than 3/4-inch are usually made with a tapered shank as
shown at Fig. 168, B. At the end of the taper a tongue is formed which
engages with a suitable opening in the collet, as the piece used to
support the drill is called. The object of this tongue is to relieve
the tapered portion of the drill from the stress of driving by
frictional contact alone, as this would not turn the drill positively
and the resulting slippage would wear the socket, this depreciation
changing the taper and making it unfit for other drills. The tongue is
usually proportioned so it is adequate to drive the drill under any
condition. A small keyway is provided in the collet into which a
tapering key of flat stock may be driven against the end of the tongue
to drive the drill from the spindle. A standard taper for drill shanks
generally accepted by the machine trade is known as the Morse and is a
taper of five-eighths of an inch to the foot. The Brown and Sharp form
tapers six-tenths of an inch to the foot. Care must be taken, therefore,
when purchasing drills and collets, to make sure that the tapers
coincide, as no attempt should be made to run a Morse taper in a Brown
and Sharp collet, or vice versa.

