Sometimes cylindrical drills have straight flutes, as outlined at Fig.
168, A. Such drills are used with soft metals and are of value when the
drill is to pass entirely through the work. The trouble with a drill
with spiral flutes is that it will tend to draw itself through as the
cutting lips break through. This catching of the drill may break it or
move the work from its position. With a straight flute drill the cutting
action is practically the same as with the flat drill shown at Fig. 168,
E and F.

If a drill is employed in boring holes through close-grained, tough
metals, as wrought or malleable iron and steel, the operation will be
facilitated by lubricating the drill with plenty of lard oil or a
solution of soda and water. Either of these materials will effectually
remove the heat caused by the friction of the metal removed against the
lips of the drill, and the danger of heating the drill to a temperature
that will soften it by drawing the temper is minimized. In drilling
large or deep holes it is good practice to apply the lubricating medium
directly at the drill point. Special drills of the form shown at Fig.
168, B, having a spiral oil tube running in a suitably formed channel,
provides communication between the point of the drill and a suitable
receiving hole on a drilled shank. The oil is supplied by a pump and its
pressure not only promotes positive circulation and removal of heat, but
also assists in keeping the hole free of chips. In drilling steel or
wrought iron, lard oil applied to the point of the drill will facilitate
the drilling, but this material should never be used with either brass
or cast iron.

The sizes to be provided depend upon the nature of the work and the
amount of money that can be invested in drills. It is common practice to
provide a set of drills, such as shown at Fig. 169, which are carried in
a suitable metal stand, these being known as number drills on account
of conforming to the wire gauge standards. Number drills do not usually
run higher than 5/16 inch in diameter. Beyond this point drills are
usually sold by the diameter. A set of chuck drills, ranging from 3/8 to
3/4 inch, advancing by 1/32 inch, and a set of Morse taper shank drills
ranging from 3/4 to 1-1/4 inches, by increments of 1/16 inch, will be
all that is needed for the most pretentious repair shop, as it is
cheaper to bore holes larger than 1-1/4 inches with a boring tool than
it is to carry a number of large drills in stock that would be used very
seldom, perhaps not enough to justify their cost.

