[Illustration: Fig. 169.--Useful Set of Number Drills, Showing Stand for
Keeping These in an Orderly Manner.]

In grinding drills, care must be taken to have the lips of the same
length, so that they will form the same angle with the axis. If one lip
is longer than the other, as shown in the flat drill at Fig. 168, E, the
hole will be larger than the drill size, and all the work of cutting
will come upon the longest lip. The drill ends should be symmetrical, as
shown at Fig. 168, F.

[Illustration: Fig. 170.--Illustrating Standard Forms of Hand and
Machine Reamers.]

It is considered very difficult to drill a hole to an exact diameter,
but for the most work a variation of a few thousandths of an inch is of
no great moment. Where accuracy is necessary, holes must be reamed out
to the required size. In reaming, a hole is drilled about 1/32 inch
smaller than is required, and is enlarged with a cutting tool known as
the reamer. Reamers are usually of the fluted form shown at Fig. 170, A.
Tools of this nature are not designed to remove considerable amounts of
metal, but are intended to augment the diameter of the drill hole by
only a small fraction of an inch. Reamers are tapered slightly at the
point in order that they will enter the hole easily, but the greater
portion of the fluted part is straight, all cutting edges being
parallel. Hand reamers are made in either the straight or taper forms,
that at A, Fig. 170, being straight, while B has tapering flutes. They
are intended to be turned by a wrench similar to that employed in
turning a tap, as shown at Fig. 172, C. The reamer shown at Fig. 170,
C, is a hand reamer. The form at D has spiral flutes similar to a twist
drill, and as it is provided with a taper shank it is intended to be
turned by power through the medium of a suitable collet.

As the solid reamers must become reduced in size when sharpened, various
forms of inserted blade reamers have been designed. One of these is
shown at E, and as the cutting surfaces become reduced in diameter it is
possible to replace the worn blades with others of proper size.
Expanding reamers are of the form shown at F. These have a bolt passing
through that fits into a tapering hole in the interior of the split
reamer portion of the tool. If the hole is to be enlarged a few
thousandths of an inch, it is possible to draw up on the nut just above
the squared end of the shank, and by drawing the tapering wedge farther
into the reamer body, the cutting portion will be expanded and will cut
a larger hole.

