Reamers must be very carefully sharpened or there will be a tendency
toward chattering with a consequent production of a rough surface. There
are several methods of preventing this chattering, one being to separate
the cutting edges by irregular spaces, while the most common method, and
that to be preferred on machine reamers, is to use spiral flutes, as
shown at Fig. 170, D. Special taper reamers are made to conform to the
various taper pin sizes which are sometimes used in holding parts
together in an engine. A taper of 1/16 inch per foot is intended for
holes where a pin, once driven in, is to remain in place. When it is
desired that the pin be driven out, the taper is made steeper, generally
1/4 inch per foot, which is the standard taper used on taper pins.

[Illustration: Fig. 171.--Tools for Thread Cutting.]

When threads are to be cut in a small hole, it will be apparent that it
will be difficult to perform this operation economically on a lathe,
therefore when internal threading is called for, a simple device known
as a "tap" is used. There are many styles of taps, all conforming to
different standards. Some are for metric or foreign threads, some
conform to the American standards, while others are used for pipe and
tubing. Hand taps are the form most used in repair shops, these being
outlined at Fig. 171, A and B. They are usually sold in sets of three,
known respectively as taper, plug, and bottoming. The taper tap is the
one first put into the hole, and is then followed by the plug tap which
cuts the threads deeper. If it is imperative that the thread should be
full size clear to the bottom of the hole, the third tap of the set,
which is straight-sided, is used. It would be difficult to start a
bottoming tap into a hole because it would be larger in diameter at its
point than the hole. The taper tap, as shown at A, Fig. 171, has a
portion of the cutting lands ground away at the point in order that it
will enter the hole. The manipulation of a tap is not hard, as it does
not need to be forced into the work, as the thread will draw it into
the hole as the tap is turned. The tapering of a tap is done so that no
one thread is called upon to remove all of the metal, as for about half
way up the length of the tap each succeeding thread is cut a little
larger by the cutting edge until the full thread enters the hole. Care
must be taken to always enter a tap straight in order to have the thread
at correct angles to the surface.

