In cutting external threads on small rods or on small pieces, such as
bolts and studs, it is not always economical to do this work in the
lathe, especially in repair work. Dies are used to cut threads on pieces
that are to be placed in tapped holes that have been threaded by the
corresponding size of tap. Dies for small work are often made solid, as
shown at Fig. 171, C, but solid dies are usually limited to sizes below
1/2 inch. Sometimes the solid die is cylindrical in shape, with a slot
through one side which enables one to obtain a slight degree of
adjustment by squeezing the slotted portion together. Large dies, or the
sizes over 1/2 inch, are usually made in two pieces in order that the
halves may be closed up or brought nearer together. The advantage of
this form of die is that either of the two pieces may be easily
sharpened, and as it may be adjusted very easily the thread may be cut
by easy stages. For example, the die may be adjusted to cut large, which
will produce a shallow thread that will act as an accurate guide when
the die is closed up and a deeper thread cut.

[Illustration: Fig. 172.--Showing Holder Designs for One- and Two-Piece
Thread Cutting Dies.]

A common form of die holder for an adjustable die is shown at Fig. 172,
A. As will be apparent, it consists of a central body portion having
guide members to keep the die pieces from falling out and levers at each
end in order to permit the operator to exert sufficient force to remove
the metal. The method of adjusting the depth of thread with a clamp
screw when a two-piece die is employed is also clearly outlined. The
diestock shown at B is used for the smaller dies of the one-piece
pattern, having a slot in order that they may be closed up slightly by
the clamp screw. The reverse side of the diestock shown at B is outlined
below it, and the guide pieces, which may be easily moved in or out,
according to the size of the piece to be threaded by means of
eccentrically disposed semi-circular slots in the adjustment plate, are
shown. These movable guide members have small pins let into their
surface which engage the slots, and they may be moved in or out, as
desired, according to the position of the adjusting plate. The use of
the guide pieces makes for accurate positioning or centering of the rod
to be threaded. Dies are usually sold in sets, and are commonly
furnished as a portion of a complete outfit such as outlined at Fig.
173. That shown has two sizes of diestock, a tap wrench, eight assorted
dies, eight assorted taps, and a small screw driver for adjusting the
die. An automobile repair shop should be provided with three different
sets of taps and dies, as three different standards for the bolts and
nuts are used in fastening automobile components. These are the
American, metric (used on foreign engines), and the S. A. E. standard
threads. A set of pipe dies and taps will also be found useful.

