[Illustration: Fig. 173.--Useful Outfit of Taps and Dies for the Engine
Repair Shop.]


MEASURING TOOLS

The tool outfit of the machinist or the mechanic who aspires to do
machine work must include a number of measuring tools which are not
needed by the floor man or one who merely assembles and takes apart the
finished pieces. The machinist who must convert raw material into
finished products requires a number of measuring tools, some of which
are used for taking only approximate measurements, such as calipers and
scales, while others are intended to take very accurate measurements,
such as the Vernier and the micrometer. A number of common forms of
calipers are shown at Fig. 174. These are known as inside or outside
calipers, depending upon the measurements they are intended to take.
That at A is an inside caliper, consisting of two legs, A and D, and a
gauging piece, B, which can be locked to leg A, or released from that
member by the screw, C. The object of this construction is to permit of
measurements being taken at the bottom of a two diameter hole, where the
point to be measured is of larger diameter than the portion of the hole
through which the calipers entered. It will be apparent that the legs A
and D must be brought close together to pass through the smaller holes.
This may be done without losing the setting, as the guide bar B will
remain in one position as determined by the size of the hole to be
measured, while the leg A may be swung in to clear the obstruction as
the calipers are lifted out. When it is desired to ascertain the
measurements the leg A is pushed back into place into the slotted
portion of the guide B, and locked by the clamp screw C. A tool of this
form is known as an internal transfer caliper.

[Illustration: Fig. 174.--Common Forms of Inside and Outside Calipers.]

The form of caliper shown at B is an outside caliper. Those at C and D
are special forms for inside and outside work, the former being used,
if desired, as a divider, while the latter may be employed for measuring
the walls of tubing. The calipers at E are simple forms, having a
friction joint to distinguish them from the spring calipers shown at B,
C and D. In order to permit of ready adjustment of a spring caliper, a
split nut as shown at G is sometimes used. A solid nut caliper can only
be adjusted by screwing the nut in or out on the screw, which may be a
tedious process if the caliper is to be set from one extreme to the
other several times in succession. With a slip nut as shown at G it is
possible to slip it from one end of the thread to the other without
turning it, and of locking it in place at any desired point by simply
allowing the caliper leg to come in contact with it. The method of
adjusting a spring caliper is shown at Fig. 174, H.

