Among the most common of the machinist's tools are those used for linear
measurements. The usual forms are shown in group, Fig. 175. The most
common tool, which is widely known, is the carpenter's folding two-foot
rule or the yardstick. While these are very convenient for taking
measurements where great accuracy is not required, the machinist must
work much more accurately than the carpenter, and the standard steel
scale which is shown at D, is a popular tool for the machinist. The
steel scale is in reality a graduated straight edge and forms an
important part of various measuring tools. These are made of high grade
steel and vary from 1 to 48 inches in length. They are carefully
hardened in order to preserve the graduations, and all surfaces and
edges are accurately ground to insure absolute parallelism. The
graduations on the high grade scales are produced with a special device
known as a dividing engine, but on cheaper scales, etching suffices to
provide a fairly accurate graduation. The steel scales may be very thin
and flexible, or may be about an eighth of an inch thick on the
twelve-inch size, which is that commonly used with combination squares,
protractors and other tools of that nature. The repairman's scale
should be graduated both with the English system, in which the inches
are divided into eighths, sixteenths, thirty-secondths and
sixty-fourths, and also in the metric system, divided into millimeters
and centimeters. Some machinists use scales graduated in tenths,
twentieths, fiftieths and hundredths. This is not as good a system of
graduation as the more conventional one first described.

[Illustration: Fig. 175.--Measuring Appliances for the Machinist and
Floor Man.]

Some steel scales are provided with a slot or groove cut the entire
length on one side and about the center of the scales. This permits the
attachment of various fittings such as the protractor head, which
enables the machinist to measure angles, or in addition the heads
convert the scale into a square or a tool permitting the accurate
bisecting of pieces of circular section. Two scales are sometimes joined
together to form a right angle, such as shown at Fig. 175, C. This is
known as a square and is very valuable in ascertaining the truth of
vertical pieces that are supposed to form a right angle with a base
piece.

