The Vernier is a device for reading finer divisions on a scale than
those into which the scale is divided. Sixty-fourths of an inch are
about the finest division that can be read accurately with the naked
eye. When fine work is necessary a Vernier is employed. This consists
essentially of two rules so graduated that the true scale has each inch
divided into ten equal parts, the upper or Vernier portion has ten
divisions occupying the same space as nine of the divisions of the true
scale. It is evident, therefore, that one of the divisions of the
Vernier is equal to nine-tenths of one of those on the true scale. If
the Vernier scale is moved to the right so that the graduations marked
"1" shall coincide, it will have moved one-tenth of a division on the
scale or one-hundredth of an inch. When the graduations numbered 5
coincide the Vernier will have moved five-hundredths of an inch; when
the lines marked 0 and 10 coincide, the Vernier will have moved
nine-hundredths of an inch, and when 10 on the Vernier comes opposite 10
on the scales, the upper rule will have moved ten-hundredths of an inch,
or the whole of one division on the scale. By this means the scale,
though it may be graduated only to tenths of an inch, may be accurately
set at points with positions expressed in hundredths of an inch. When
graduated to read in thousandths, the true scale is divided into fifty
parts and the Vernier into twenty parts. Each division of the Vernier
is therefore equal to nineteen-twentieths of one of the true scale. If
the Vernier be moved so the lines of the first division coincide, it
will have moved one-twentieth of one-fiftieth, or .001 inch. The Vernier
principle can be readily grasped by studying the section of the Vernier
scale and true scale shown at Fig. 176, A.

[Illustration: Fig. 176.--At Left, Special Form of Vernier Caliper for
Measuring Gear Teeth; at Right, Micrometer for Accurate Internal
Measurements.]

The caliper scale which is shown at Fig. 175, A, permits of taking the
over-all dimension of any parts that will go between the jaws. This
scale can be adjusted very accurately by means of a fine thread screw
attached to a movable jaw and the divisions may be divided by eye into
two parts if one sixty-fourth is the smallest of the divisions. A line
is indicated on the movable jaw and coincides with the graduations on
the scale. As will be apparent, if the line does not coincide exactly
with one of the graduations it will be at some point between the lines
and the true measurement may be approximated without trouble.

