A group of various other measuring tools of value to the machinist is
shown at Fig. 177. The small scale at A is termed a "center gauge,"
because it can be used to test the truth of the taper of either a male
or female lathe center. The two smaller nicks, or v's, indicate the
shape of a standard thread, and may be used as a guide for grinding the
point of a thread-cutting tool. The cross level which is shown at B is
of marked utility in erecting, as it will indicate absolutely if the
piece it is used to test is level. It will indicate if the piece is
level along its width as well as its length.

[Illustration: Fig. 177.--Measuring Appliances of Value in Airplane
Repair Work.]

A very simple attachment for use with a scale that enables the machinist
to scribe lines along the length of a cylindrical piece is shown at Fig.
177, C. These are merely small wedge-shaped clamps having an angular
face to rest upon the bars. The thread pitch gauge which is shown at
Fig. 177, D, is an excellent pocket tool for the mechanic, as it is
often necessary to determine without loss of time the pitch of the
thread on a bolt or in a nut. This consists of a number of leaves having
serrations on one edge corresponding to the standard thread it is to be
used in measuring. The tool shown gives all pitches up to 48 threads per
inch. The leaves may be folded in out of the way when not in use, and
their shape admits of their being used in any position without the
remainder of the set interfering with the one in use. The fine pitch
gauges have slim, tapering leaves of the correct shape to be used in
finding the pitch of small nuts. As the tool is round when the leaves
are folded back out of the way, it is an excellent pocket tool, as there
are no sharp corners to wear out the pocket. Practical application of a
Vernier having measuring heads of special form for measuring gear teeth
is shown at Fig. 176, A. As the action of this tool has been previously
explained, it will not be necessary to describe it further.

