
MICROMETER CALIPERS AND THEIR USE

Where great accuracy is necessary in taking measurements the micrometer
caliper, which in the simple form will measure easily .001 inch
(one-thousandth part of an inch) and when fitted with a Vernier that
will measure .0001 inch (one ten-thousandth part of an inch), is used.
The micrometer may be of the caliper form for measuring outside
diameters or it may be of the form shown at Fig. 176, B, for measuring
internal diameters. The operation of both forms is identical except that
the internal micrometer is placed inside of the bore to be measured
while the external form is used just the same as a caliper. The form
outlined will measure from one and one-half to six and a half inches as
extension points are provided to increase the range of the instrument.
The screw has a movement of one-half inch and a hardened anvil is placed
in the end of the thimble in order to prevent undue wear at that point.
The extension points or rods are accurately made in standard lengths and
are screwed into the body of the instrument instead of being pushed in,
this insuring firmness and accuracy. Two forms of micrometers for
external measurements are shown at Fig. 178. The top one is graduated
to read in thousandths of an inch, while the lower one is graduated to
indicate hundredths of a millimeter. The mechanical principle involved
in the construction of a micrometer is that of a screw free to move in a
fixed nut. An opening to receive the work to be measured is provided by
the backward movement of the thimble which turns the screw and the size
of the opening is indicated by the graduations on the barrel.

[Illustration: Fig. 178.--Standard Forms of Micrometer Caliper for
External Measurements.]

The article to be measured is placed between the anvil and spindle, the
frame being held stationary while the thimble is revolved by the thumb
and finger. The pitch of the screw thread on the concealed part of the
spindle is 40 to an inch. One complete revolution of the spindle,
therefore, moves it longitudinally one-fortieth, or twenty-five
thousandths of an inch. As will be evident from the development of the
scale on the barrel of the inch micrometer, the sleeve is marked with
forty lines to the inch, each of these lines indicating twenty-five
thousandths. The thimble has a beveled edge which is graduated into
twenty-five parts. When the instrument is closed the graduation on the
beveled edge of the thimble marked 0 should correspond to the 0 line on
the barrel. If the micrometer is rotated one full turn the opening
between the spindle and anvil will be .025 inch. If the thimble is
turned only one graduation, or one twenty-fifth of a revolution, the
opening between the spindle and anvil will be increased only by .001
inch (one-thousandth of an inch).

