Micrometers are made in many sizes, ranging from those having a maximum
opening of one inch to special large forms that will measure forty or
more inches. While it is not to be expected that the repairman will have
use for the big sizes, if a caliper having a maximum opening of six
inches is provided with a number of extension rods enabling one to
measure smaller objects, practically all of the measuring needed in
repairing engine parts can be made accurately. Two or three smaller
micrometers having a maximum range of two or three inches will also be
found valuable, as most of the measurements will be made with these
tools which will be much easier to handle than the larger sizes.


TYPICAL TOOL OUTFITS

The equipment of tools necessary for repairing airplane engines depends
entirely upon the type of the power plant and while the common hand
tools can be used on all forms, the work is always facilitated by having
special tools adapted for reaching the nuts and screws that would be
hard to reach otherwise. Special spanners and socket wrenches are very
desirable. Then again, the nature of the work to be performed must be
taken into consideration. Rebuilding or overhauling an engine calls for
considerably more tools than are furnished for making field repairs or
minor adjustments. A complete set of tools supplied to men working on
Curtiss OX-2 engines and JN-4 training biplanes is shown at Fig. 179.
The tools are placed in a special box provided with a hinged cover and
are arranged in the systematic manner outlined. The various tools and
supplies shown are: A, hacksaw blades; B, special socket wrenches for
engine bolts and nuts; C, ball pein hammers, four sizes; D, five
assorted sizes of screw drivers ranging from very long for heavy work to
short and small for fine work; E, seven pairs of pliers including
combination in three sizes, two pairs of cutting pliers and one round
nose; F, two split pin extractors and spreaders; G, wrench set including
three adjustable monkey wrenches, one Stillson or pipe wrench, five
sizes adjustable end wrenches and ten double end S wrenches; H, set of
files, including flat, three cornered and half round; I, file brush; J,
chisel and drift pin; K, three small punches or drifts; L, hacksaw
frame; M, soldering copper; N, special spanners for propeller retaining
nuts; O, special spanners; P, socket wrenches, long handle; Q, long
handle, stiff bristle brushes for cleaning motor; R, gasoline blow
torch; S, hand drill; T, spools of safety wire; U, flash lamp; V,
special puller and castle wrenches; W, oil can; X, large adjustable
monkey wrench; Y, washer and gasket cutter; Z, ball of heavy twine. In
addition to the tools, various supplies, such as soldering acid, solder,
shellac, valve grinding compound, bolts and nuts, split pins, washers,
wood screws, etc., are provided.

