The special tools and fixtures recommended by the Hall-Scott Company for
work on their engines are clearly shown at Fig. 180. All tools are
numbered and their uses may be clearly understood by reference to the
illustration and explanatory list given on pages 410 and 411.


OVERHAULING AIRPLANE ENGINES

After an airplane engine has been in use for a period ranging from 60 to
80 hours, depending upon the type, it is necessary to give it a thorough
overhauling before it is returned to service. To do this properly, the
engine is removed from the fuselage and placed on a special supporting
stand, such as shown at Fig. 181, so it can be placed in any position
and completely dismantled. With a stand of this kind it is as easy to
work on the bottom of the engine as on the top and every part can be
instantly reached. The crank-case shown in place in illustration is in a
very convenient position for scraping in the crank-shaft bearings.

[Illustration: Fig. 180.--Special Tools and Appliances to Facilitate
Overhauling Work on Hall-Scott Airplane Engines.]

In order to look over the parts of an engine and to restore the worn or
defective components it is necessary to take the engine entirely apart,
as it is only when the power plant is thoroughly dismantled that the
parts can be inspected or measured to determine defects or wear. If one
is not familiar with the engine to be inspected, even though the work is
done by a repairman of experience, it will be found of value to take
certain precautions when dismantling the engine in order to insure that
all parts will be replaced in the same position they occupied before
removal. There are a number of ways of identifying the parts, one of the
simplest and surest being to mark them with steel numbers or letters or
with a series of center punch marks in order to retain the proper
relation when reassembling. This is of special importance in connection
with dismantling multiple cylinder engines as it is vital that pistons,
piston rings, connecting rods, valves, and other cylinder parts be
always replaced in the same cylinder from which they were removed,
because it is uncommon to find equal depreciation in all cylinders. Some
repairmen use small shipping tags to identify the pieces. This can be
criticised because the tags may become detached and lost and the
identity of the piece mistaken. If the repairing is being done in a shop
where other engines of the same make are being worked on, the repairman
should be provided with a large chest fitted with a lock and key in
which all of the smaller parts, such as rods, bolts and nuts, valves,
gears, valve springs, cam-shafts, etc., may be stored to prevent the
possibility of confusion with similar members of other engines. All
parts should be thoroughly cleaned with gasoline or in the potash kettle
as removed, and wiped clean and dry. This is necessary to show wear
which will be evidenced by easily identified indications in cases where
the machine has been used for a time, but in others, the deterioration
can only be detected by delicate measuring instruments.

