[Illustration: Fig. 181.--Special Stand to Make Motor Overhauling Work
Easier.]

In taking down a motor the smaller parts and fittings such as
spark-plugs, manifolds and wiring should be removed first. Then the more
important members such as cylinders may be removed from the crank-case
to give access to the interior and make possible the examination of the
pistons, rings and connecting rods. After the cylinders are removed the
next operation is to disconnect the connecting rods from the crank-shaft
and to remove them and the pistons attached as a unit. Then the
crank-case is dismembered, in most cases by removing the bottom half or
oil sump, thus exposing the main bearings and crank-shaft. The first
operation is the removal of the inlet and exhaust manifolds. In some
cases the manifolds are cored integral with the cylinder head casting
and it is merely necessary to remove a short pipe leading from the
carburetor to one inlet opening and the exhaust pipe from the outlet
opening common to all cylinders. In order to remove the carburetor it is
necessary to shut off the gasoline supply at the tank and to remove the
pipe coupling at the float chamber. It is also necessary to disconnect
the throttle operating rod. After the cylinders are removed and before
taking the crank-case apart it is well to remove the water pump and
magneto. The wiring on most engines of modern development is carried in
conduits and usually releasing two or three minor fastenings will permit
one to take off the plug wiring as a unit. The wire should be
disconnected from both spark-plugs and magneto distributor before its
removal. When the cylinders are removed, the pistons, piston rings, and
connecting rods are clearly exposed and their condition may be readily
noticed.

Before disturbing the arrangement of the timing gears, it is important
that these be marked so that they will be replaced in exactly the same
relation as intended by the engine designer. If the gears are properly
marked the valve timing and magneto setting will be undisturbed when the
parts are replaced after overhauling. With the cylinders off, it is
possible to ascertain if there is any undue wear present in the
connecting rod bearings at either the wrist pin or crank-pin ends and
also to form some idea of the amount of carbon deposits on the piston
top and back of the piston rings. Any wear of the timing gears can also
be determined. The removal of the bottom plate of the engine enables the
repairman to see if the main bearings are worn unduly. Often bearings
may be taken up sufficiently to eliminate all looseness. In other cases
they may be worn enough so that careful refitting will be necessary.
Where the crank-case is divided horizontally into two portions, the
upper one serving as an engine base to which the cylinders and in fact
all important working parts are attached, the lower portion performs the
functions of an oil container and cover for the internal mechanism. This
is the construction generally followed.

