
DEFECTS IN CYLINDERS

After the cylinders have been removed and stripped of all fittings, they
should be thoroughly cleaned and then carefully examined for defects.
The interior or bore should be looked at with a view of finding score
marks, grooves, cuts or scratches in the interior, because there are
many faults that may be ascribed to depreciation at this point. The
cylinder bore may be worn out of round, which can only be determined by
measuring with an internal caliper or dial indicator even if the
cylinder bore shows no sign of wear. The flange at the bottom of the
cylinder by which it is held to the engine base may be cracked. The
water jacket wall may have opened up due to freezing of the jacket
water at some time or other or it may be filled with scale and sediment
due to the use of impure cooling water. The valve seat may be scored or
pitted, while the threads holding the valve chamber cap may be worn so
that the cap will not be a tight fit. The detachable head construction
makes it possible to remove that member and obtain ready access to the
piston tops for scraping out carbon without taking the main cylinder
portion from the crank-case. When the valves need grinding the head may
be removed and carried to the bench where the work may be performed with
absolute assurance that none of the valve grinding compound will
penetrate into the interior of the cylinder as is sometimes unavoidable
with the I-head cylinder. If the cylinder should be scored, the water
jacket and combustion head may be saved and a new cylinder casting
purchased at considerably less cost than that of the complete unit
cylinder.

The detachable head construction has only recently been applied on
airplane engines, though it was one of the earliest forms of automobile
engine construction. In the early days it was difficult to procure
gaskets or packings that would be both gas and water tight. The sheet
asbestos commonly used was too soft and blew out readily. Besides a new
gasket had to be made every time the cylinder head was removed. Woven
wire and asbestos packings impregnated with rubber, red lead, graphite
and other filling materials were more satisfactory than the soft sheet
asbestos, but were prone to burn out if the water supply became low.
Materials such as sheet copper or brass proved to be too hard to form a
sufficiently yielding packing medium that would allow for the inevitable
slight inaccuracies in machining the cylinder head and cylinder. The
invention of the copper-asbestos gasket, which is composed of two sheets
of very thin, soft copper bound together by a thin edging of the same
material and having a piece of sheet asbestos interposed solved this
problem. Copper-asbestos packings form an effective seal against leakage
of water and a positive retention means for keeping the explosion
pressure in the cylinder. The great advantage of the detachable head is
that it permits of very easy inspection of the piston tops and
combustion chamber and ready removal of carbon deposits.

