
CARBON DEPOSITS, THEIR CAUSE AND PREVENTION

Most authorities agree that carbon is the result of imperfect combustion
of the fuel and air mixture as well as the use of lubricating oils of
improper flash point. Lubricating oils that work by the piston rings may
become decomposed by the great heat in the combustion chamber, but at
the same time one cannot blame the lubricating oil for all of the carbon
deposits. There is little reason to suspect that pure petroleum oil of
proper body will deposit excessive amounts of carbon, though if the oil
is mixed with castor oil, which is of vegetable origin, there would be
much carbon left in the interior of the combustion chamber. Fuel
mixtures that are too rich in gasoline also produce these undesirable
accumulations.

A very interesting chemical analysis of a sample of carbon scraped from
the interior of a motor vehicle engine shows that ordinarily the
lubricant is not as much to blame as is commonly supposed. The analysis
was as follows:

Oil                          14.3%
Other combustible matter     17.9
Sand, clay, etc.             24.8
Iron oxide                   24.5
Carbonate of lime             8.9
Other constituents            9.6

It is extremely probable that the above could be divided into two
general classes, these being approximately 32.2% oil and combustible
matter and a much larger proportion, or 67.8% of earthy matter. The
presence of such a large percentage of earthy matter is undoubtedly due
to the impurities in the air, such as road dust which has been sucked
in through the carburetor. The fact that over 17% of the matter which is
combustible was not of an oily nature lends strong support to this view.
There would not be the amount of earthy material present in the carbon
deposits of an airplane engine as above stated because the air is almost
free from dust at the high altitudes planes are usually flown. One could
expect to find more combustible and less earthy matter and the carbon
would be softer and more easily removed. It is very good practice to
provide a screen on the air intake to reduce the amounts of dust sucked
in with the air as well as observing the proper precautions relative to
supplying the proper quantities of air to the mixture and of not using
any more oil than is needed to insure proper lubrication of the internal
mechanism.

