When available, an electric motor with a length of flexible shaft and a
small circular cleaning brush having wire bristles can be used in the
interior of the engine. The electric motor need not be over one-eighth
horse-power running 1,200 to 1,600 R. P. M., and the wire brush must, of
course, be of such size that it can be easily inserted through the valve
chamber cap. The flexible shaft permits one to reach nearly all parts of
the cylinder interior without difficulty and the spreading out and
flattening of the brush insures that considerable surface will be
covered by that member.


BURNING OUT CARBON WITH OXYGEN

A process of recent development that gives very good results in removing
carbon without disassembling the motor depends on the process of burning
out that material by supplying oxygen to support the combustion and to
make it energetic. A number of concerns are already offering apparatus
to accomplish this work, and in fact any shop using an autogenous
welding outfit may use the oxygen tank and reducing valve in connection
with a simple special torch for burning the carbon. Results have
demonstrated that there is little danger of damaging the motor parts,
and that the cost of oxygen and labor is much lower than the old method
of removing the cylinders and scraping the carbon out, as well as being
very much quicker than the alternative process of using carbon solvent.
The only drawback to this system is that there is no absolute insurance
that every particle of carbon will be removed, as small protruding
particles may be left at points that the flame does not reach and cause
pre-ignition and consequent pounding, even after the oxygen treatment.
It is generally known that carbon will burn in the presence of oxygen,
which supports combustion of all materials, and this process takes
advantage of this fact and causes the gas to be injected into the
combustion chamber over a flame obtained by a match or wax taper.

[Illustration: Fig. 182.--Showing Where Carbon Deposits Collect in
Engine Combustion Chamber, and How to Burn Them Out with the Aid of
Oxygen. A--Special Torch. B--Torch Coupled to Oxygen Tank. C--Torch in
Use.]

