It is suggested by those favoring this process that the night before the
oxygen is to be used the engine be given a conventional kerosene
treatment. A half tumbler full of this liquid or of denatured alcohol is
to be poured into each cylinder and permitted to remain there over
night. As a precaution against fire, the gasoline is shut off from the
carburetor before the torch is inserted in the cylinder and the motor
started so that the gasoline in the pipe and carburetor float chamber
will be consumed. Work is done on one cylinder at a time. A note of
caution was recently sounded by a prominent spark-plug manufacturer
recommending that the igniter member be removed from the cylinder in
order not to injure it by the heat developed. The outfits on the market
consist of a special torch having a trigger controlled valve and a
length of flexible tubing such as shown at Fig. 182, A, and a regulating
valve and oxygen tank as shown at B. The gauge should be made to
register about twelve pounds pressure.

The method of operation is very simple and is outlined at C. The burner
tube is placed in the cylinder and the trigger valve is opened and the
oxygen permitted to circulate in the combustion chamber. A lighted match
or wax taper is dropped in the chamber and the injector tube is moved
around as much as possible so as to cover a large area. The carbon takes
fire and burns briskly in the presence of the oxygen. The combustion of
the carbon is accompanied by sparks and sometimes by flame if the
deposit is of an oily nature. Once the carbon begins to burn the
combustion continues without interruption as long as the oxygen flows
into the cylinder. Full instructions accompany each outfit and the
amount of pressure for which the regulator should be set depends upon
the design of the torch and the amount of oxygen contained in the
storage tank.


REPAIRING SCORED CYLINDERS

If the engine has been run at any time without adequate lubrication, one
or more of the cylinders may be found to have vertical scratches running
up and down the cylinder walls. The depth of these will vary according
to the amount of time the cylinder was without lubrication, and if the
grooves are very deep the only remedy is to purchase a new member. Of
course, if sufficient stock is available in the cylinder walls, the
cylinders may be rebored and new pistons which are oversize, _i.e._,
larger than standard, may be fitted. Where the scratches are not deep
they may be ground out with a high speed emery wheel or lapped out if
that type of machine is not available. Wrist pins have been known to
come loose, especially when these are retained by set screws that are
not properly locked, and as wrist-pins are usually of hardened steel it
will be evident that the sharp edge of that member can act as a cutting
tool and make a pronounced groove in the cylinder. Cylinder grinding is
a job that requires skilled mechanics, but may be accomplished on any
lathe fitted with an internal grinding attachment. While automobile
engine cylinders usually have sufficient wall thickness to stand
reboring, those of airplane engines seldom have sufficient metal to
permit of enlarging the bore very much by a boring tool. A few
thousandths of an inch may be ground out without danger, however. An
airplane engine cylinder with deep grooves must be scrapped as a general
rule.

