Where the grooves in the cylinder are not deep or where it has warped
enough so the rings do not bear equally at all parts of the cylinder
bore, it is possible to obtain a fairly accurate degree of finish by a
lapping process in which an old piston is coated with a mixture of fine
emery and oil and is reciprocated up and down in the cylinder as well as
turned at the same time. This may be easily done by using a dummy
connecting rod having only a wrist pin end boss, and of such size at the
other end so that it can be held in the chuck of a drill press. The
cylinder casting is firmly clamped on the drill press table by suitable
clamping blocks, and a wooden block is placed in the combustion chamber
to provide a stop for the piston at its lower extreme position. The back
gears are put in and the drill chuck is revolved slowly. All the while
that the piston is turning the drill chuck should be raised up and down
by the hand feed lever, as the best results are obtained when the
lapping member is given a combination of rotary and reciprocating
motion.


VALVE REMOVAL AND INSPECTION

One of the most important parts of the gasoline engine and one that
requires frequent inspection and refitting to keep in condition, is the
mushroom or poppet valve that controls the inlet and exhaust gas flow.
In overhauling it is essential that these valves be removed from their
seatings and examined carefully for various defects which will be
enumerated at proper time. The problem that concerns us now is the best
method of removing the valve. These are held against the seating in the
cylinder by a coil spring which exerts its pressure on the cylinder
casting at the upper end and against a suitable collar held by a key at
the lower end of the valve stem. In order to remove the valve it is
necessary to first compress the spring by raising the collar and pulling
the retaining key out of the valve stem. Many forms of valve spring
lifters have been designed to permit ready removal of the valves.

