When the cylinder is of the valve in-the-head form, the method of valve
removal will depend entirely upon the system of cylinder construction
followed. In the Sturtevant cylinder design it is possible to remove the
head from the cylinder castings and the valve springs may be easily
compressed by any suitable means when the cylinder head is placed on the
work bench where it can be easily worked on. The usual method is to
place the head on a soft cloth with the valves bearing against the
bench. The valve springs may then be easily pushed down with a simple
forked lever and the valve stem key removed to release the valve spring
collar. In the Curtiss OX-2 (see Fig. 182-1/2) and Hall-Scott engines it
is not possible to remove the valves without taking the cylinder off
the crank-case, because the valve seats are machined directly in the
cylinder head and the valve domes are cast integrally with the cylinder.
This means that if the valves need grinding the cylinder must be removed
from the engine base to provide access to the valve heads which are
inside of that member, and which cannot be reached from the outside as
is true of the L-cylinder construction. In the Curtiss VX engines, the
valves are carried in detachable cages which may be removed when the
valves need attention.

[Illustration: Fig. 182-1/2.--Part Sectional View, Showing Valve
Arrangement in Cylinder of Curtiss OX-2 Aviation Engine.]


RESEATING AND TRUING VALVES

Much has been said relative to valve grinding, and despite the mass of
information given in the trade prints it is rather amusing to watch the
average repairman or the engine user who prides himself on maintaining
his own motor performing this essential operation. The common mistakes
are attempting to seat a badly grooved or pitted valve head on an
equally bad seat, which is an almost hopeless job, and of using coarse
emery and bearing down with all one's weight on the grinding tool with
the hope of quickly wearing away the rough surfaces. The use of improper
abrasive material is a fertile cause of failure to obtain a satisfactory
seating. Valve grinding is not a difficult operation if certain
precautions are taken before undertaking the work. The most important of
these is to ascertain if the valve head or seat is badly scored or
pitted. If such is found to be the case no ordinary amount of grinding
will serve to restore the surfaces. In this event the best thing to do
is to remove the valve from its seating and to smooth down both the
valve head and the seat in the cylinder before attempt is made to fit
them together by grinding. Another important precaution is to make sure
that the valve stem is straight, and that the head is not warped out of
shape.

