[Illustration: Fig. 183.--Tools for Restoring Valve Head and Seats.]

A number of simple tools is available at the present time for reseating
valves, these being outlined at Fig. 183. That shown at A is a simple
fixture for facing off the valve head. The stem is supported by suitable
bearings carried by the body or shank of the tool, and the head is
turned against an angularly disposed cutter which is set for the proper
valve seat angle. The valve head is turned by a screw-driver, the amount
of stock removed from the head depending upon the location of the
adjusting screw. Care must be taken not to remove too much metal, only
enough being taken off to remove the most of the roughness. Valves are
made in two standard tapers, the angle being either 45 or 60 degrees. It
is imperative that the cutter blade be set correctly in order that the
bevel is not changed. A set of valve truing and valve-seat reaming
cutters is shown at Fig. 183, B. This is adaptable to various size valve
heads, as the cutter blade D may be moved to correspond to the size of
the valve head being trued up. These cutter blades are made of tool
steel and have a bevel at each end, one at 45 degrees, the other at 60
degrees. The valve seat reamer shown at G will take any one of the heads
shown at F. It will also take any one of the guide bars shown at H. The
function of the guide bars is to fit the valve stem bearing in order to
locate the reamer accurately and to insure that the valve seat is
machined concentrically with its normal center. Another form of valve
seat reamer and a special wrench used to turn it is shown at C. The
valve head truer shown at Fig. 183, D, is intended to be placed in a
vise and is adaptable to a variety of valve head sizes. The smaller
valves merely fit deeper in the conical depression. The cutter blade is
adjustable and the valve stem is supported by a simple self-centering
bearing. In operation it is intended that the valve stem, which
protrudes through the lower portion of the guide bearing, shall be
turned by a drill press or bit stock while the valve head is set against
the cutter by pressure of a pad carried at the end of a feed screw which
is supported by a hinged bridge member. This can be swung out of place
as indicated to permit placing the valve head against the cutter or
removing it.

