As it is desirable to turn the valve through a portion of a revolution
and back again rather than turning it always in the same direction, a
number of special tools has been designed to make this oscillating
motion possible without trouble. A simple valve grinding tool is shown
at Fig. 184, C. This consists of a screw-driver blade mounted in a
handle in such a way that the end may turn freely in the handle. A
pinion is securely fastened to the screw-driver blade shank, and is
adapted to fit a race provided with a wood handle and guided by a bent
bearing member securely fastened to the screw-driver handle. As the rack
is pushed back and forth the pinion must be turned first in one
direction and then in the other.

[Illustration: Fig. 184.--Tools and Processes Utilized in Valve
Grinding.]

A valve grinding tool patterned largely after a breast drill is shown at
Fig. 184, D. This is worked in such a manner that a continuous rotation
of the operating crank will result in an oscillating movement of the
chuck carrying the screw-driver blade. The bevel pinions which are used
to turn the chuck are normally free unless clutched to the chuck stem by
the sliding sleeve which must turn with the chuck stem and which carries
clutching members at each end to engage similar members on the bevel
pinions and lock these to the chuck stem, one at a time. The bevel gear
carries a cam-piece which moves the clutch sleeve back and forth as it
revolves. This means that the pinion giving forward motion of the chuck
is clutched to the chuck spindle for a portion of a revolution of the
gear and clutch sleeve is moved back by the cam and clutched to the
pinion giving a reverse motion of the chuck during the remainder of the
main drive gear revolution.

It sometimes happens that the adjusting screw on the valve lift plunger
or the valve lift plunger itself when L head cylinders are used does not
permit the valve head to rest against the seat. It will be apparent that
unless a definite space exists between the end of the valve stem and the
valve lift plunger that grinding will be of little avail because the
valve head will not bear properly against the abrasive material smeared
on the valve seat.

