The usual methods of valve grinding are clearly outlined at Fig. 184.
The view at the left shows the method of turning the valve by an
ordinary screw driver and also shows a valve head at A, having both the
drilled holes and the screw-driver slot for turning the member and two
special forms of fork-end valve grinding tools. In the sectional view
shown at the right, the use of the light spring between the valve head
and the bottom of the valve chamber to lift the valve head from the seat
whenever pressure on the grinding tool is released is clearly indicated.
It will be noted also that a ball of waste or cloth is interposed in the
passage between the valve chamber and the cylinder interior to prevent
the abrasive material from passing into the cylinder from the valve
chamber. When a bitstock is used, instead of being given a true rotary
motion the chuck is merely oscillated through the greater part of the
circle and back again. It is necessary to lift the valve from its seat
frequently as the grinding operation continues; this is to provide an
even distribution of the abrasive material placed between the valve head
and its seat. Only sufficient pressure is given to the bitstock to
overcome the uplift of the spring and to insure that the valve will be
held against the seat. Where the spring is not used it is possible to
raise the valve from time to time with the hand which is placed under
the valve stem to raise it as the grinding is carried on. It is not
always possible to lift the valve in this manner when the cylinders are
in place on the engine base owing to the space between the valve lift
plunger and the end of the valve stem. In this event the use of the
spring as shown in sectional view will be desirable.

The abrasive generally used is a paste made of medium or fine emery and
lard oil or kerosene. This is used until the surfaces are comparatively
smooth, after which the final polish or finish is given with a paste of
flour emery, grindstone dust, crocus, or ground glass and oil. An
erroneous impression prevails in some quarters that the valve head
surface and the seating must have a mirror-like polish. While this is
not necessary it is essential that the seat in the cylinder and the
bevel surface of the head be smooth and free from pits or scratches at
the completion of the operation. All traces of the emery and oil should
be thoroughly washed out of the valve chamber with gasoline before the
valve mechanism is assembled and in fact it is advisable to remove the
old grinding compound at regular intervals, wash the seat thoroughly and
supply fresh material as the process is in progress.

