The truth of seatings may be tested by taking some Prussian blue pigment
and spreading a thin film of it over the valve seat. The valve is
dropped in place and is given about one-eighth turn with a little
pressure on the tool. If the seating is good both valve head and seat
will be covered uniformly with color. If high spots exist, the heavy
deposit of color will show these while the low spots will be made
evident because of the lack of pigment. The grinding process should be
continued until the test shows an even bearing of the valve head at all
points of the cylinder seating. When the valves are held in cages it is
possible to catch the cage in a vise and to turn the valve in any of the
ways indicated. It is much easier to clean off the emery and oil and
there is absolutely no danger of getting the abrasive material in the
cylinder if the construction is such that the valve cage or cylinder
head member carrying the valve can be removed from the cylinder. When
valves are held in cages, the tightness of the seat may be tested by
partially filling the cage with gasoline and noticing how much liquid
oozes out around the valve head. The degree of moisture present
indicates the efficacy of the grinding process.

The valves of Curtiss OX-2 cylinders are easily ground in by using a
simple fixture or tool and working from the top of the cylinder instead
of from the inside. A tube having a bore just large enough to go over
the valve stem is provided with a wooden handle or taped at one end and
a hole of the same size as that drilled through the valve stem is put in
at the other. To use, the open end of the tube is pushed over the valve
stem and a split pin pushed through the tube and stem. The valve may be
easily manipulated and ground in place by oscillating in the customary
manner.


DEPRECIATION IN VALVE OPERATING SYSTEMS

There are a number of points to be watched in the valve operating system
because valve timing may be seriously interfered with if there is much
lost motion at the various bearing points in the valve lift mechanism.
The two conventional methods of opening valves are shown at Fig. 185.
That at A is the type employed when the valve cages are mounted directly
in the head, while the form at B is the system used when the valves are
located in a pocket or extension of the cylinder casting as is the case
if an L, or T-head cylinder is used. It will be evident that there are
several points where depreciation may take place. The simplest form is
that shown at B, and even on this there are five points where lost
motion may be noted. The periphery of the valve opening cam or roller
may be worn, though this is not likely unless the roller or cam has
been inadvertently left soft. The pin which acts as a bearing for the
roller may become worn, this occurring quite often. Looseness may
materialize between the bearing surfaces of the valve lift plunger and
the plunger guide casting, and there may also be excessive clearance
between the top of the plunger and the valve stem.

