[Illustration: Fig. 185.--Outlining Points in Valve Operating Mechanism
Where Depreciation is Apt to Exist.]

On the form shown at A, there are several parts added to those indicated
at B. A walking beam or rocker lever is necessary to transform the
upward motion of the tappet rod to a downward motion of the valve stem.
The pin on which this member fulcrums may wear as will also the other
pin acting as a hinge or bearing for the yoke end of the tappet rod. It
will be apparent that if slight play existed at each of the points
mentioned it might result in a serious diminution of valve opening.
Suppose, for example, that there were .005-inch lost motion at each of
three bearing points, the total lost motion would be .015-inch or
sufficient to produce noisy action of the valve mechanism. When valve
plungers of the adjustable form, such as shown at B, are used, the
hardened bolt head in contact with the end of the valve stem may become
hollowed out on account of the hammering action at that point. It is
imperative that the top of this member be ground off true and the
clearance between the valve stem and plunger properly adjusted. If the
plunger is a non-adjustable type it will be necessary to lengthen the
valve stem by some means in order to reduce the excessive clearance. The
only remedy for wear at the various hinges and bearing pins is to bore
the holes out slightly larger and to fit new hardened steel pins of
larger diameter. Depreciation between the valve plunger guide and the
valve plunger is usually remedied by fitting new plunger guides in place
of the worn ones. If there is sufficient stock in the plunger guide
casting as is sometimes the case when these members are not separable
from the cylinder casting, the guide may be bored out and bushed with a
light bronze bushing.

A common cause of irregular engine operation is due to a sticking valve.
This may be owing to a bent valve stem, a weak or broken valve spring or
an accumulation of burnt or gummed oil between the valve stem and the
valve stem guide. In order to prevent this the valve stem must be
smoothed with fine emery cloth and no burrs or shoulders allowed to
remain on it, and the stem must also be straight and at right angles to
the valve head. If the spring is weak it may be strengthened in some
cases by stretching it out after annealing so that a larger space will
exist between the coils and re-hardening. Obviously if a spring is
broken the only remedy is replacement of the defective member.

