Mention has been made of wear in the valve stem guide and its influence
on engine action. When these members are an integral part of the
cylinder the only method of compensating for this wear is to drill the
guide out and fit a bushing, which may be made of steel tube.

In some engines, especially those of recent development, the valve stem
guide is driven or screwed into the cylinder casting and is a separate
member which may be removed when worn and replaced with a new one. When
the guides become enlarged to such a point that considerable play exists
between them and the valve stems, they may be easily knocked out or
unscrewed.


PISTON TROUBLES

If an engine has been entirely dismantled it is very easy to examine the
pistons for deterioration. While it is important that the piston be a
good fit in the cylinder it is mainly upon the piston rings that
compression depends. The piston should fit the cylinder with but little
looseness, the usual practice being to have the piston about .001-inch
smaller than the bore for each inch of piston diameter at the point
where the least heat is present or at the bottom of the piston. It is
necessary to allow more than this at the top of the piston owing to its
expansion due to the direct heat of the explosion. The clearance is
usually graduated and a piston that would be .005-inch smaller than the
cylinder bore at the bottom would be about .0065-inch at the middle and
.0075-inch at the top. If much more play than this is evidenced the
piston will "slap" in the cylinder and the piston will be worn at the
ends more than in the center. Aluminum or alloy pistons require more
clearance than cast iron ones do, usually 1.50 times as much. Pistons
sometimes warp out of shape and are not truly cylindrical. This results
in the high spots rubbing on the cylinder while the low spots will be
blackened where a certain amount of gas has leaked by.

Mention has been previously made of the necessity of reboring or
regrinding a cylinder that has become scored or scratched and which
allows the gas to leak by the piston rings. When the cylinder is ground
out, it is necessary to use a larger piston to conform to the enlarged
cylinder bore. Most manufacturers are prepared to furnish over-size
pistons, there being four standard over-size dimensions adopted by the
S. A. E. for rebored cylinders. These are .010-inch, .020-inch,
.030-inch, and .040-inch larger than the original bore.

