The piston rings should be taken out of the piston grooves and all
carbon deposits removed from the inside of the ring and the bottom of
the groove. It is important to take this deposit out because it prevents
the rings from performing their proper functions by reducing the ring
elasticity, and if the deposit is allowed to accumulate it may
eventually result in sticking and binding of the ring, this producing
excessive friction or loss of compression. When the rings are removed
they should be tested to see if they retain their elasticity and it is
also well to see that the small pins in some pistons which keep the
rings from turning around so the joints will not come in line are still
in place. If no pins are found there is no cause for alarm because these
dowels are not always used. When fitted, they are utilized with rings
having a butt joint or diagonal cut as the superior gas retaining
qualities of the lap or step joint render the pins unnecessary.

If gas has been blowing by the ring or if these members have not been
fitting the cylinder properly the points where the gas passed will be
evidenced by burnt, brown or roughened portions of the polished surface
of the pistons and rings. The point where this discoloration will be
noticed more often is at the thin end of an eccentric ring, the
discoloration being present for about 1/2-inch or 3/4-inch each side of
the slot. It may be possible that the rings were not true when first
put in. This made it possible for the gas to leak by in small amounts
initially which increased due to continued pressure until quite a large
area for gas escape had been created.


PISTON RING MANIPULATION

Removing piston rings without breaking them is a difficult operation if
the proper means are not taken, but is a comparatively simple one when
the trick is known. The tools required are very simple, being three
strips of thin steel about one-quarter inch wide and four or five inches
long and a pair of spreading tongs made up of one-quarter inch diameter
keystock tied in the center with a copper wire to form a hinge. The
construction is such that when the hand is closed and the handles
brought together the other end of the expander spreads out, an action
just opposite to that of the conventional pliers. The method of using
the tongs and the metal strips is clearly indicated at Fig. 186. At A
the ring expander is shown spreading the ends of the rings sufficiently
to insert the pieces of sheet metal between one of the rings and the
piston. Grasp the ring as shown at B, pressing with the thumbs on the
top of the piston and the ring will slide off easily, the thin metal
strips acting as guide members to prevent the ring from catching in the
other piston grooves. Usually no difficulty is experienced in removing
the top or bottom rings, as these members may be easily expanded and
worked off directly without the use of a metal strip. When removing the
intermediate rings, however, the metal strips will be found very useful.
These are usually made by the repairman by grinding the teeth from old
hacksaw blades and rounding the edges and corners in order to reduce the
liability of cutting the fingers. By the use of the three metal strips a
ring is removed without breaking or distorting it and practically no
time is consumed in the operation.

