
FITTING PISTON RINGS

Before installing new rings, they should be carefully fitted to the
grooves to which they are applied. The tools required are a large piece
of fine emery cloth, a thin, flat file, a small vise with copper or
leaden jaw clips, and a smooth hard surface such as that afforded by the
top of a surface plate or a well planed piece of hard wood. After making
sure that all deposits of burnt oil and carbon have been removed from
the piston grooves, three rings are selected, one for each groove. The
ring is turned all around its circumference into the groove it is to
fit, which can be done without springing it over the piston as the
outside edge of the ring may be used to test the width of the groove
just as well as the inside edge. The ring should be a fair fit and while
free to move circumferentially there should be no appreciable up and
down motion. If the ring is a tight fit it should be laid edge down upon
the piece of emery cloth which is placed on the surface plate and
carefully rubbed down until it fits the groove it is to occupy. It is
advisable to fit each piston ring individually and to mark them in some
way to insure that they will be placed in the groove to which they are
fitted.

The repairman next turns his attention to fitting the ring in the
cylinder itself. The ring should be pushed into the cylinder at least
two inches up from the bottom and endeavor should be made to have the
lower edge of the ring parallel with the bottom of the cylinder. If the
ring is not of correct diameter, but is slightly larger than the
cylinder bore, this condition will be evident by the angular slots of
the rings being out of line or by difficulty in inserting the ring if it
is a lap joint form. If such is the case the ring is removed from the
cylinder and placed in the vise between soft metal jaw clips. Sufficient
metal is removed with a fine file from the edges of the ring at the slot
until the edges come into line and a slight space exists between them
when the ring is placed into the cylinder. It is important that this
space be left between the ends, for if this is not done when the ring
becomes heated the expansion of metal may cause the ends to abut and the
ring to jam in the cylinder.

