[Illustration: Fig. 186.--Method of Removing Piston Rings, and Simple
Clamp to Facilitate Insertion of Rings in Cylinder.]

It is necessary to use more than ordinary caution in replacing the rings
on the piston because they are usually made of cast iron, a metal that
is very fragile and liable to break because of its brittleness. Special
care should be taken in replacing new rings as these members are more
apt to break than old ones. This is probably accounted for by the
heating action on used rings which tends to anneal the metal as well as
making it less springy. The bottom ring should be placed in position
first which is easily accomplished by springing the ring open enough to
pass on the piston and then sliding it into place in the lower groove
which on some types of engines is below the wrist pin, whereas in others
all grooves are above that member. The other members are put in by a
reversal of the process outlined at Fig. 186, A and B. It is not always
necessary to use the guiding strips of metal when replacing rings as it
is often possible, by putting the rings on the piston a little askew and
maneuvering them to pass the grooves without springing the ring into
them. The top ring should be the last one placed in position.

Before placing pistons in the cylinder one should make sure that the
slots in the piston rings are spaced equidistant on the piston, and if
pins are used to keep the ring from turning one should be careful to
make sure that these pins fit into their holes in the ring and that they
are not under the ring at any point. Practically all cylinders are
chamfered at the lower end to make insertion of piston rings easier. The
operation of putting on a cylinder casting over a piston really requires
two pairs of hands, one to manipulate the cylinder, the other person to
close the rings as they enter the cylinder. This may be done very easily
by a simple clamp member made of sheet brass or iron and used to close
the ring as indicated at Fig. 186, C. It is apparent that the clamp must
be adjusted to each individual ring and that the split portion of the
clamp must coincide with the split portion of the ring. The cylinder
should be well oiled before any attempt is made to install the pistons.
The engine should be run with more than the ordinary amount of lubricant
for several hours after new piston rings have been inserted. On first
starting the engine, one may be disappointed in that the compression is
even less than that obtained with the old rings. This condition will
soon be remedied as the rings become polished and adapt themselves to
the contour of the cylinder.

