
WRIST PIN WEAR

While wrist pins are usually made of very tough steel, case hardened
with the object of wearing out an easily renewable bronze bushing in the
upper end of the connecting rod rather than the wrist pin it sometimes
happens that these members will be worn so that even the replacement of
a new bushing in the connecting rod will not reduce the lost motion and
attendant noise due to a loose wrist pin. The only remedy is to fit new
wrist pins to the piston. Where the connecting rod is clamped to the
wrist pin and that member oscillates in the piston bosses the wear will
usually be indicated on bronze bushings which are pressed into the
piston bosses. These are easily renewed and after running a reamer
through them of the proper size no difficulty should be experienced in
replacing either the old or a new wrist pin depending upon the condition
of that member. If no bushings are provided, as in alloy pistons, the
bosses can sometimes be bored out and thin bushings inserted, though
this is not always possible. The alternative is to ream out the bosses
and upper end of rod a trifle larger after holes are trued up and fit
oversize wrist pins.


INSPECTION AND REFITTING OF ENGINE BEARINGS

While the engine is dismantled one has an excellent opportunity to
examine the various bearing points in the engine crank-case to ascertain
if any looseness exists due to depreciation of the bearing surfaces. As
will be evident, both main crank-shaft bearings and the lower end of the
connecting rods may be easily examined for deterioration. With the rods
in place, it is not difficult to feel the amount of lost motion by
grasping the connecting rod firmly with the hand and moving it up and
down. After the connecting rods have been removed and the propeller hub
taken off the crank-shaft to permit of ready handling, any looseness in
the main bearing may be detected by lifting up on either the front or
rear end of the crank-shaft and observing if there is any lost motion
between the shaft journal and the main bearing caps. It is not necessary
to take an engine entirely apart to examine the main bearings, as in
most forms these may be readily reached by removing the sump. The
symptoms of worn main bearings are not hard to identify. If an engine
knocks regardless of speed or spark-lever position, and the trouble is
not due to carbon deposits in the combustion chamber, one may reasonably
surmise that the main bearings have become loose or that lost motion may
exist at the connecting rod big ends, and possibly at the wrist pins.
The main journals of any well resigned engine are usually proportioned
with ample surface and will not wear unduly unless lubrication has been
neglected. The connecting rod bearings wear quicker than the main
bearings owing to being subjected to a greater unit stress, and it may
be necessary to take these up.

