
ADJUSTING MAIN BEARINGS

[Illustration: Fig. 187.--Tools and Processes Used in Refitting Engine
Bearings.]

When the bearings are not worn enough to require refitting the lost
motion can often be eliminated by removing one or more of the thin shims
or liners ordinarily used to separate the bearing caps from the seat.
These are shown at Fig. 187, A. Care must be taken that an even number
of shims of the same thickness are removed from each side of the
journal. If there is considerable lost motion after one or two shims
have been removed, it will be advisable to take out more shims and to
scrape the bearing to a fit before the bearing cap is tightened up. It
may be necessary to clean up the crank-shaft journals as these may be
scored due to not having received clean oil or having had bearings seize
upon them. It is not difficult to true up the crank-pins or main
journals if the score marks are not deep. A fine file and emery cloth
may be used, or a lapping tool such as depicted at Fig. 187, B. The
latter is preferable because the file and emery cloth will only tend to
smooth the surface while the lap will have the effect of restoring the
crank to proper contour.

A lapping tool may be easily made, as shown at B, the blocks being of
lead or hard wood. As the width of these are about half that of the
crank-pin the tool may be worked from side to side as it is rotated. An
abrasive paste composed of fine emery powder and oil is placed between
the blocks, and the blocks are firmly clamped to the crank-pin. As the
lead blocks bed down, the wing nut should be tightened to insure that
the abrasive will be held with some degree of pressure against the
shaft. A liberal supply of new abrading material is placed between the
lapping blocks and crank-shaft from time to time and the old mixture
cleaned off with gasoline. It is necessary to maintain a side to side
movement of the lapping tool in order to have the process affect the
whole width of the crank-pin equally. The lapping is continued until a
smooth surface is obtained. If a crank-pin is worn out of true to any
extent the only method of restoring it is to have it ground down to
proper circular form by a competent mechanic having the necessary
machine tools to carry on the work accurately. A crank-pin truing tool
that may be worked by hand is shown at Fig. 187, K.

