After the crank-shaft is trued the next operation is to fit it to the
main bearings or rather to scrape these members to fit the shaft
journal. In order to bring the brasses closer together, it may be
necessary to remove a little metal from the edges of the caps to
compensate for the lost motion. A very simple way of doing this is shown
at Fig. 187, D. A piece of medium emery cloth is rested on the surface
plate and the box or brass is pushed back and forth over that member by
hand, the amount of pressure and rapidity of movement being determined
by the amount of metal it is necessary to remove. This is better than
filing, because the edges will be flat and there will be no tendency
for the bearing caps to rock when placed against the bearing seat. It is
important to take enough off the edges of the boxes to insure that they
will grip the crank tightly. The outer diameter must be checked with a
pair of calipers during this operation to make sure that the surfaces
remain parallel. Otherwise, the bearing brasses will only grip at one
end and with such insufficient support they will quickly work loose,
both in the bearing seat and bearing cap.


SCRAPING BRASSES TO FIT

To insure that the bearing brasses will be a good fit on the trued-up
crank-pins or crank-shaft journals, they must be scraped to fit the
various crank-shaft journals. The process of scraping, while a tedious
one, is not difficult, requiring only patience and some degree of care
to do a good job. The surface of the crank-pin is smeared with Prussian
blue pigment which is spread evenly over the entire surface. The
bearings are then clamped together in the usual manner with the proper
bolts, and the crank-shaft revolved several times to indicate the high
spots on the bearing cap. At the start of the process of scraping in,
the bearing may seat only at a few points as shown at Fig. 187, G.
Continued scraping will bring the bearing surface as indicated at H,
which is a considerable improvement, while the process may be considered
complete when the brass indicates a bearing all over as at I. The high
spots are indicated by blue, as where the shaft does not bear on the
bearing there is no color. The high spots are removed by means of a
scraping tool of the form shown at Fig. 187, F, which is easily made
from a worn-out file. These are forged to shape and ground hollow as
indicated in the section, and are kept properly sharpened by frequent
rubbing on an ordinary oil stone. To scrape properly, the edge of the
scraper must be very keen. The straight and curved half-round scrapers,
shown at M and N, are used for bearings. The three-cornered scraper,
outlined at O, is also used on curved surfaces, and is of value in
rounding off the sharp corners. The straight or curved half-round type
works well on soft-bearing metals, such as babbitt, or white brass, but
on yellow brass or bronze it cuts very slowly, and as soon as the edge
becomes dull considerable pressure is needed to remove any metal, this
calling for frequent sharpening.

