When correcting errors on flat or curved surfaces by hand-scraping, it
is desirable, of course, to obtain an evenly spotted bearing with as
little scraping as possible. When the part to be scraped is first
applied to the surface-plate, or to a journal in the case of a bearing,
three or four "high" spots may be indicated by the marking material. The
time required to reduce these high spots and obtain a bearing that is
distributed over the entire surface depends largely upon the way the
scraping is started. If the first bearing marks indicate a decided rise
in the surface, much time can be saved by scraping larger areas than are
covered by the bearing marks; this is especially true of large shaft and
engine bearings, etc. An experienced workman will not only remove the
heavy marks, but also reduce a larger area; then, when the bearing is
tested again, the marks will generally be distributed somewhat. If the
heavy marks which usually appear at first are simply removed by light
scraping, these "point bearings" are gradually enlarged, but a much
longer time will be required to distribute them.

The number of times the bearing must be applied to the journal for
testing is important, especially when the box or bearing is large and
not easily handled. The time required to distribute the bearing marks
evenly depends largely upon one's judgment in "reading" these marks. In
the early stages of the scraping operation, the marks should be used
partly as a guide for showing the high areas, and instead of merely
scraping the marked spot the surface surrounding it should also be
reduced, unless it is evident that the unevenness is local. The idea
should be to obtain first a few large but generally distributed marks;
then an evenly and finely spotted surface can be produced quite easily.

In fitting brasses when these are of the removable type, two methods may
be used. The upper half of the engine base may be inverted on a suitable
bench or stand and the boxes fitted by placing the crank-shaft in
position, clamping down one bearing cap at a time and fitting each
bearing in succession until they bed equally. From that time on the
bearings should be fitted at the same time so the shaft will be parallel
with the bottom of the cylinders. Considerable time and handling of the
heavy crank-shaft may be saved if a preliminary fitting of the bearing
brasses is made by clamping them together with a carpenter's wood clamp
as shown at Fig. 187, J, and leaving the crank-shaft attached to the
bench as shown at C. The brasses are revolved around the crank-shaft
journal and are scraped to fit wherever high spots are indicated until
they begin to seat fairly. When the brasses assume a finished appearance
the final scraping should be carried on with all bearings in place and
revolving the crank-shaft to determine the area of the seating. When the
brasses are properly fitted they will not only show a full bearing
surface, but the shaft will not turn unduly hard if revolved with a
moderate amount of leverage.

