Bearings of white metal or babbitt can be fitted tighter than those of
bronze, and care must be observed in supplying lubricant as considerably
more than the usual amount is needed until the bearings are run in by
several hours of test block work. Before the scraping process is started
it is well to chisel an oil groove in the bearing as shown at Fig. 187,
L. Grooves are very helpful in insuring uniform distribution of oil over
the entire width of bearing and at the same time act as reservoirs to
retain a supply of oil. The tool used is a round-nosed chisel, the
effort being made to cut the grooves of uniform depth and having smooth
sides. Care should be taken not to cut the grooves too deeply, as this
will seriously reduce the strength of the bearing bushing. The shape of
the groove ordinarily provided is clearly shown at Fig. 187, G, and it
will be observed that the grooves do not extend clear to the edge of the
bearing, but stop about a quarter of an inch from that point. The hole
through which the oil is supplied to the bearing is usually drilled in
such a way that it will communicate with the groove.

The tool shown at Fig. 187, K, is of recent development, and is known as
a "crank-shaft equalizer." This is a hand-operated turning tool,
carrying cutters which are intended to smooth down scored crank-pins
without using a lathe. The feed may be adjusted by suitable screws and
the device may be fitted to crank-pins and shaft-journals of different
diameters by other adjusting screws. This device is not hard to operate,
being merely clamped around the crank-shaft in the same manner as the
lapping tool previously described, and after it has been properly
adjusted it is turned around by the levers provided for the purpose, the
continuous rotary motion removing the metal just as a lathe tool would.


FITTING CONNECTING RODS

In the marine type rod, which is the form generally used in airplane
engines, one or two bolts are employed at each side and the cap must be
removed entirely before the bearing can be taken off of the crank-pin.
The tightness of the brasses around the crank-pin can never be
determined solely by the adjustment of the bolts, as while it is
important that these should be drawn up as tightly as possible, the
bearing should fit the shaft without undue binding, even if the brasses
must be scraped to insure a proper fit. As is true of the main bearings,
the marine form of connecting rod in some engines has a number of liners
or shims interposed between the top and lower portions of the rod end,
and these may be reduced in number when necessary to bring the brasses
closer together. The general tendency in airplane engines is to
eliminate shims in either the main or connecting rod bearings, and when
wear is noticed the boxes or liners are removed and new ones supplied.
The brasses are held in the connecting rod and cap by brass rivets and
are generally attached in the main bearing by small brass machine
screws. The form of box generally favored is a brass sand casting rich
in copper to secure good heat conductivity which forms a backing for a
thin layer of white brass, babbitt or similar anti-friction metal.

