[Illustration: Fig. 188.--Showing Points to Observe When Fitting
Connecting Rod Brasses.]

In fitting new brasses there are two conditions to be avoided, these
being outlined at Fig. 188, B and C. In the case shown at C the light
edges of the bushings are in contact, but the connecting rod and its cap
do not meet. When the retaining nuts are tightened the entire strain is
taken on the comparatively small area of the edges of the bushings which
are not strong enough to withstand the strains existing and which
flatten out quickly, permitting the bearing to run loose. In the example
outlined at B the edges of the brasses do not touch when the connecting
rod cap is drawn in place. This is not good practice, because the
brasses soon become loose in their retaining member. In the case
outlined it is necessary to file off the faces of the rod and cap until
these meet, and to insure contact of the edges of the brasses as well.
In event of the brasses coming together before the cap and rod make
contact, as shown at C, the bearing halves should be reduced at the
edges until both the caps and brasses meet against each other or the
surfaces of the liners as shown at A.


SPRUNG CAM-SHAFT

If the cam-shaft is sprung or twisted it will alter the valve timing to
such an extent that the smoothness of operation of the engine will be
materially affected. If this condition is suspected the cam-shaft may be
swung on lathe centers and turned to see if it runs out and can be
straightened in any of the usual form of shaft-straightening machines.
The shaft may be twisted without being sprung. This can only be
determined by supporting one end of the shaft in an index head and the
other end on a milling machine center. The cams are then checked to see
that they are separated by the proper degree of angularity. This process
is one that requires a thorough knowledge of the valve timing of the
engine in question, and is best done at the factory where the engine was
made. The timing gears should also be examined to see if the teeth are
worn enough so that considerable back lash or lost motion exists between
them. This is especially important where worm or spiral gears are used.
A worn timing gear not only produces noise, but it will cause the time
of opening and closing of the engine valves to vary materially.

