
PRECAUTIONS IN REASSEMBLING PARTS

When all of the essential components of a power plant have been
carefully looked over and cleaned and all defects eliminated, either by
adjustment or replacement of worn portions, the motor should be
reassembled, taking care to have the parts occupy just the same
relative positions they did before the motor was dismantled. As each
part is added to the assemblage care should be taken to insure adequate
lubrication of all new points of bearing by squirting liberal quantities
of cylinder oil upon them with a hand oil can or syringe provided for
the purpose. In adjusting the crank-shaft bearings, tighten them one at
a time and revolve the shafts each time one of the bearing caps is set
up to insure that the newly adjusted bearing does not have undue
friction. All retaining keys and pins must be positively placed and it
is good practice to cover such a part with lubricant before replacing it
because it will not only drive in easier, but the part may be removed
more easily if necessary at some future time. If not oiled, rust
collects around it.

When a piece is held by more than one bolt or screw, especially if it is
a casting of brittle material such as cast iron or aluminum, the
fastening bolts should be tightened uniformly. If one bolt is tightened
more than the rest it is liable to spring the casting enough to break
it. Spring washers, check nuts, split pins or other locking means should
always be provided, especially on parts which are in motion or subjected
to heavy loads.

Before placing the cylinder over the piston it is imperative that the
slots in the piston rings are spaced equidistant and that the piston is
copiously oiled before the cylinder is slipped over it. When
reassembling the inlet and exhaust manifolds it is well to use only
perfect packings or gaskets and to avoid the use of those that seem to
have hardened up or flattened out too much in service. If it is
necessary to use new gaskets it is imperative to employ these at all
joints on a manifold, because if old and new gaskets are used together
the new ones are apt to keep the manifold from bedding properly upon the
used ones. It is well to coat the threads of all bolts and screws
subjected to heat, such as cylinder head and exhaust manifold retaining
bolts, with a mixture of graphite and oil. Those that enter the water
jacket should be covered with white or red lead or pipe thread
compound. Gaskets will hold better if coated with shellac before the
manifold or other parts are placed over them. The shellac fills any
irregularities in the joint and assists materially in preventing leakage
after the joint is made up and the coating has a chance to set.

