Before assembling on the shaft, it is necessary to fit the bearings by
scraping, the same instructions given for restoring the contour of the
main bearings applying just as well in this case. It is apparent that if
the crank-pins are not round no amount of scraping will insure a true
bearing. A point to observe is to make sure that the heads of the bolts
are imbedded solidly in their proper position, and that they are not
raised by any burrs or particles of dirt under the head which will
flatten out after the engine has been run for a time and allow the bolts
to slack off. Similarly, care should be taken that there is no foreign
matter under the brasses and the box in which they seat. To guard
against this the bolts should be struck with a hammer several times
after they are tightened up, and the connecting rod can be hit sharply
several times under the cap with a wooden mallet or lead hammer. It is
important to pin the brasses in place to prevent movement, as
lubrication may be interfered with if the bushing turns round and breaks
the correct register between the oil hole in the cap and brasses.

Care should be taken in screwing on the retaining nuts to insure that
they will remain in place and not slack off. Spring washers should not
be used on either connecting rod ends or main bearing nuts, because
these sometimes snap in two pieces and leave the nut slack. The best
method of locking is to use well-fitting split pins and castellated
nuts.


TESTING BEARING PARALLELISM

It is not possible to give other than general directions regarding the
proper degree of tightening for a connecting rod bearing, but as a guide
to correct adjustment it may be said that if the connecting rod cap is
tightened sufficiently so the connecting rod will just about fall over
from a vertical position due to the piston weight when the bolts are
fully tightened up, the adjustment will be nearly correct. As previously
stated, babbitt or white metal bearings can be set up more tightly than
bronze, as the metal is softer and any high spots will soon be leveled
down with the running of the engine. It is important that care be taken
to preserve parallelism of the wrist-pins and crank-shafts while
scraping in bearings. This can be determined in two ways. That shown at
Fig. 189, A, is used when the parts are not in the engine assembly and
when the connecting rod bearing is being fitted to a mandrel or arbor
the same size as the crank-pin. The arbor, which is finished very smooth
and of uniform diameter, is placed in two V blocks, which in turn are
supported by a level surface plate. An adjustable height gauge may be
tried, first at one side of the wrist-pin which is placed at the upper
end of the connecting rod, then at the other, and any variation will be
easily determined by the degree of tilting of the rod. This test may be
made with the wrist-pin alone, or if the piston is in place, a straight
edge or spirit level may be employed. The spirit level will readily show
any inclination while the straight edge is used in connection with the
height gauge as indicated. Of course, the surface plate must be
absolutely level when tests are made.

