When the connecting rods are being fitted with the crank-shaft in place
in crank-case, and that member secured in the frame, a steel square may
be used as it is reasonable to assume that the wrist-pin, and
consequently the piston it carries, should observe a true relation with
the top of the engine base. If the piston side is at right angles with
the top of the engine base it is reasonable to assume that the wrist-pin
and crank-pin are parallel. If the piston is canted to one side or the
other, it will indicate that the brasses have been scraped tapering,
which would mean considerable heating and undue friction if the piston
is installed in the cylinder on account of the pressure against one
portion of the cylinder wall. If the degree of canting is not too great,
the connecting rods may be sprung very slightly to straighten up the
piston, but this is a makeshift that is not advised. The height gauge
method shown above may be used instead of the steel square, if desired,
because the top of the crank-case is planed or milled true and should be
parallel with the center line of the crank-shaft.

[Illustration: Fig. 189.--Methods of Testing to Insure Parallelism of
Bearings After Fitting.]


CAM-SHAFTS AND TIMING GEARS

Knocking sounds are also evident if the cam-shaft is loose in its
bearings, and also if the cams or timing gears are loose on the shaft.
The cam-shaft is usually supported by solid bearings of the removable
bushing type, having no compensation for depreciation. If these bearings
wear the only remedy is replacement with new ones. In the older makes of
cars it was general practice to machine the cams separately and to
secure these to the cam-shaft by means of taper pins or keys. These
members sometimes loosened and caused noise. In the event of the cams
being loose, care should be taken to use new keys or taper pins, as the
case may be. If the fastening used was a pin, the hole through the
cam-shaft will invariably be slightly oval from wear. In order to insure
a tight job, the holes in cam and shaft must be reamed with the next
larger size of standard taper reamer and a larger pin driven in. Another
point to watch is the method of retaining the cam-shaft gear in place.
On some engines the gear is fastened to a flange on the cam-shaft by
retaining screws. These are not apt to become loose, but where reliance
is placed on a key the cam-shaft gear may often be loose on its
supporting member. The only remedy is to enlarge the key slot in both
gear and shaft and to fit a larger retaining key.

