


CHAPTER XII

Aviation Engine Types--Division in Classes--Anzani Engines--
Canton and Unné Engine--Construction of Gnome Engines--
"Monosoupape" Gnome--German "Gnome" Type--Le Rhone Engine--
Renault Air-Cooled Engine--Simplex Model "A" Hispano-Suiza--
Curtiss Aviation Motors--Thomas-Morse Model 88 Engine--
Duesenberg Engine--Aeromarine Six-Cylinder--Wisconsin Aviation
Engines--Hall-Scott Engines--Mercedes Motor--Benz Motor--
Austro-Daimler--Sunbeam-Coatalen.


AVIATION ENGINE TYPES

Inasmuch as numerous forms of airplane engines have been devised, it
would require a volume of considerable size to describe even the most
important developments of recent years. As considerable explanatory
matter has been given in preceding chapters and the principles involved
in internal combustion engine operation considered in detail, a
relatively brief review of the features of some of the most successful
airplane motors should suffice to give the reader a complete enough
understanding of the art so all types of engines can be readily
recognized and the advantages and disadvantages of each type understood,
as well as defining the constructional features enough so the methods of
locating and repairing the common engine and auxiliary system troubles
will be fully grasped.

Aviation engines can be divided into three main classes. One of the
earliest attempts to devise distinctive power plant designs for aircraft
involved the construction of engines utilizing a radial arrangement of
the cylinders or a star-wise disposition. Among the engines of this
class may be mentioned the Anzani, R. E. P. and the Salmson or Canton
and Unné forms. The two former are air-cooled, the latter design is
water-cooled. Engines of this type have been built in cylinder numbers
ranging from three to twenty. While the simple forms were popular in the
early days of aviation engine development, they have been succeeded by
the more conventional arrangements which now form the largest class. The
reason for the adoption of a star-wise arrangement of cylinders has been
previously considered. Smoothness of running can only be obtained by
using a considerable number of cylinders. The fundamental reason for the
adoption of the star-wise disposition is that a better distribution of
stress is obtained by having all of the pistons acting on the same
crank-pin so that the crank-throw and pin are continuously under maximum
stress. Some difficulty has been experienced in lubricating the lower
cylinders in some forms of six cylinder, rotary crank, radial engines
but these have been largely overcome so they are not as serious in
practice as a theoretical consideration would indicate.

