Another class of engines developed to meet aviation requirements is a
complete departure from the preceding class, though when the engines are
at rest, it is difficult to differentiate between them. This class
includes engines having a star-wise disposition of the cylinders but the
cylinders themselves and the crank-case rotate and the crank-shaft
remains stationary. The important rotary engines are the Gnome, the Le
Rhone and the Clerget. By far the most important classification is that
including engines which retain the approved design of the types of power
plants that have been so widely utilized in automobiles and which have
but slight modifications to increase reliability and mechanical strength
and produce a reduction in weight. This class includes the vertical
engines such as the Duesenberg and Hall-Scott four-cylinder; the
Wisconsin, Aeromarine, Mercedes, Benz, and Hall-Scott six-cylinder
vertical engines and the numerous eight- and twelve-cylinder Vee designs
such as the Curtiss, Renault, Thomas-Morse, Sturtevant, Sunbeam, and
others.


ANZANI ENGINES

The attention of the mechanical world was first directed to the great
possibilities of mechanical flight when Bleriot crossed the English
Channel in July, 1909, in a monoplane of his own design and
construction, having the power furnished by a small three-cylinder
air-cooled engine rated at about 24 horse-power and having cylinders
4.13 inches bore and 5.12 inches stroke, stated to develop the power at
about 1600 R.P.M. and weighing 145 pounds. The arrangement of this early
Anzani engine is shown at Fig. 190, and it will be apparent that in the
main, the lines worked out in motorcycle practice were followed to a
large extent. The crank-case was of the usual vertically divided
pattern, the cylinders and heads being cast in one piece and held to the
crank-case by stud bolts passing through substantial flanges at the
cylinder base. In order to utilize but a single crank-pin for the three
cylinders it was necessary to use two forked rods and one rod of the
conventional type. The arrangement shown at Fig. 190, called for the use
of counter-balanced flywheels which were built up in connection with
shafts and a crank-pin to form what corresponds to the usual crank-shaft
assembly.

