[Illustration: Fig. 190.--Views Outlining Construction of Three-Cylinder
Anzani Aviation Motor.]

The inlet valves were of the automatic type so that a very simple valve
mechanism consisting only of the exhaust valve push rods was provided.
One of the difficulties of this arrangement of cylinders was that the
impulses are not evenly spaced. For instance, in the forms where the
cylinders were placed 60 degrees apart the space between the firing of
the first cylinder and that next in order was 120 degrees crank-shaft
rotation, after which there was an interval of 300 degrees before the
last cylinder to fire delivered its power stroke. In order to increase
the power given by the simple three-cylinder air-cooled engine a
six-cylinder water-cooled type, as shown at Figs. 191 and 192, was
devised. This was practically the same in action as the three-cylinder
except that a double throw crank-shaft was used and while the
explosions were not evenly spaced the number of explosions obtained
resulted in fairly uniform application of power.

[Illustration: Fig. 190a.--Illustrations Depicting Wrong and Right
Methods of "Swinging the Stick" to Start Airplane Engine. At Top, Poor
Position to Get Full Throw and Get Out of the Way. Below, Correct
Position to Get Quick Turn Over of Crank-Shaft and Spring Away from
Propeller.]

[Illustration: Fig. 191.--The Anzani Six-Cylinder Water-Cooled Aviation
Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 192.--Sectional View of Anzani Six-Cylinder
Water-Cooled Aviation Engine.]

The latest design of three-cylinder Anzani engine, which is used to some
extent for school machines, is shown at Fig. 193. In this, the
three-cylinders are symmetrically arranged about the crank-case or 120
degrees apart. The balance is greatly improved by this arrangement and
the power strokes occur at equal intervals of 240 degrees of crank-shaft
rotation. This method of construction is known as the Y design. By
grouping two of these engines together, as outlined at Fig. 194, which
gives an internal view, and at Fig. 195, which shows the sectional view,
and using the ordinary form of double throw crank-shaft with crank-pins
separated by 180 degrees, a six-cylinder radial engine is produced which
runs very quietly and furnishes a steady output of power. The
peculiarity of the construction of this engine is in the method of
grouping the connecting rod about the common crank-pin without using
forked rods or the "Mother rod" system employed in the Gnome engines. In
the Anzani the method followed is to provide each connecting rod big end
with a shoe which consists of a portion of a hollow cylinder held
against the crank-pin by split clamping rings. The dimensions of these
shoes are so proportioned that the two adjacent connecting rods of a
group of three will not come into contact even when the connecting rods
are at the minimum relative angle. The three shoes of each group rest
upon a bronze sleeve which is in halves and which surrounds the
crank-pin and rotates relatively to it once in each crank-shaft
revolution. The collars, which are of tough bronze, resist the inertia
forces while the direct pressure of the explosions is transmitted
directly to the crank-pin bushing by the shoes at the big end of the
connecting rod. The same method of construction, modified to some
extent, is used in the Le Rhone rotary cylinder engine.

