[Illustration: Fig. 193.--Three-Cylinder Anzani Air-Cooled Y-Form
Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 194.--Anzani Fixed Crank-Case Engine of the
Six-Cylinder Form Utilizes Air Cooling Successfully.]

Both cylinders and pistons of the Anzani engines are of cast iron, the
cylinders being provided with a liberal number of cooling flanges which
are cast integrally. A series of auxiliary exhaust ports is drilled near
the base of each cylinder so that a portion of the exhaust gases will
flow out of the cylinder when the piston reaches the end of its power
stroke. This reduces the temperature of the gases passing around the
exhaust valves and prevents warping of these members. Another
distinctive feature of this engine design is the method of attaching the
Zenith carburetor to an annular chamber surrounding the rear portion of
the crank-case from which the intake pipes leading to the intake valves
radiate. The magneto is the usual six-cylinder form having the armature
geared to revolve at one and one-half times crank-shaft speed.

[Illustration: Fig. 195.--Sectional View Showing Internal Parts of
Six-Cylinder Anzani Engine, with Starwise Disposition of Cylinders.]

[Illustration: Fig. 196.--The Anzani Ten-Cylinder Aviation Engine at
the Left, and the Twenty-Cylinder Fixed Type at the Right.]

The Anzani aviation engines are also made in ten- and twenty-cylinder
forms as shown at Fig. 196. It will be apparent that in the
ten-cylinder form explosions will occur every 72 degrees of crank-shaft
rotation, while in the twenty-cylinder, 200 horse-power engine at any
instant five of the cylinders are always working and explosions are
occurring every 36 degrees of crank-shaft rotation. On the
twenty-cylinder engine, two carburetors are used and two magnetos,
which are driven at two and one-half times crank-shaft speed. The
general cylinder and valve construction is practically the same, as in
the simpler engines.

[Illustration: Fig. 197.--Application of R. E. P. Five-Cylinder
Fan-Shape Air-Cooled Motor to Early Monoplane.]

