
CANTON AND UNNÉ ENGINE

This engine, which has been devised specially for aviation service, is
generally known as the "Salmson" and is manufactured in both France and
Great Britain. It is a nine-cylinder water-cooled radial engine, the
nine cylinders being symmetrically disposed around the crank-shaft while
the nine connecting rods all operate on a common crank-pin in somewhat
the same manner as the rods in the Gnome motor. The crank-shaft of the
Salmson engine is not a fixed one and inasmuch as the cylinders do not
rotate about the crank-shaft it is necessary for that member to revolve
as in the conventional engine. The stout hollow steel crank-shaft is in
two pieces and has a single throw. The crank-shaft is built up somewhat
the same as that of the Gnome engine. Ball bearings are used throughout
this engine as will be evident by inspecting the sectional view given at
Fig. 199. The nine steel connecting rods are machined all over and are
fitted at each end with bronze bushings, the distance between the
bearing centers being about 3.25 times crank length. The method of
connecting up the rods to the crank-pin is one of the characteristic
features of this design. No "mother" rod as supplied in the Gnome engine
is used in this type inasmuch as the steel cage or connecting rod
carrier is fitted with symmetrically disposed big end retaining pins.
Inasmuch as the carrier is mounted on ball bearings some means must be
provided of regulating the motion of the carrier as if no means were
provided the resulting motion of the pistons would be irregular.

[Illustration: Fig. 198.--The Canton and Unné Nine-Cylinder Water-Cooled
Radial Engine.]

The method by which the piston strokes are made to occur at precise
intervals involves a somewhat lengthy and detailed technical
explanation. It is sufficient to say that an epicyclic train of gears,
one of which is rigidly attached to the crank-case so it cannot rotate
is used, while other gears make a connection between the fixed gear and
with another gear which is exactly the same size as the fixed gear
attached to the crank-case and which is formed integrally with the
connecting rod carrier. The action of the gearing is such that the cage
carrying the big end retaining pins does not rotate independently of
the crank-shaft, though, of course, the crank-shaft or rather crank-pin
bearings must turn inside of the big end carrier cage.

