
CONSTRUCTION OF EARLY GNOME MOTOR

It cannot be denied that for a time one of the most widely used of
aeroplane motors was the seven-cylinder revolving air-cooled Gnome, made
in France. For a total weight of 167 pounds this motor developed 45 to
47 horse-power at 1,000 revolutions, being equal to 3.35 pounds per
horse-power, and has proved its reliability by securing many
long-distance and endurance records. The same engineers have produced
a nine-cylinder and by combining two single engines a fourteen-cylinder
revolving Gnome, having a nominal rating of 100 horse-power, with which
world's speed records were broken. A still more powerful engine has been
made with eighteen-cylinders. The nine-cylinder "monosoupape" delivers
100 horse-power at 1200 R. P. M., the engine of double that number of
cylinders is rated at about 180 horse-power.

[Illustration: Fig. 200.--Sectional View Outlining Construction of Early
Type Gnome Valve-in-Piston Type Motor.]

Except in the number of cylinders and a few mechanical details the
fourteen-cylinder motor is identical with the seven-cylinder one; fully
three-quarters of the parts used by the assemblers would do just as well
for one motor as for the other. Owing to the greater power demands of
the modern airplane the smaller sizes of Gnome engines are not used as
much as they were except for school machines. There is very little in
this motor that is common to the standard type of vertical motorcar
engine. The cylinders are mounted radially round a circular crank-case;
the crank-shaft is fixed, and the entire mass of cylinders and
crank-case revolves around it as outlined at Fig. 200. The explosive
mixture and the lubricating oil are admitted through the fixed hollow
crank-shaft, passed into the explosion chamber through an automatic
intake valve in the piston head in the early pattern, and the spent
gases exhausted through a mechanically operated valve in the cylinder
head. The course of the gases is practically a radial one. A peculiarity
of the construction of the motor is that nickel steel is used
throughout. Aluminum is employed for the two oil pump housings; the
single compression ring known as the "obdurator" for each piston is made
of brass; there are three or four brass bushes; gun metal is employed
for certain pins--the rest is machined out of chrome nickel steel. The
crank-case is practically a steel hoop, the depth depending on whether
it has to receive seven-or fourteen-cylinders; it has seven or fourteen
holes bored as illustrated on its circumference. When fourteen or
eighteen cylinders are used the holes are bored in two distinct planes,
and offset in relation one to the other.

