The cylinders of the small engine which have a bore of 4-3/10 inches and
a stroke of 4-7/10 inches, are machined out of the solid bar of steel
until the thickness of the walls is only 1.5 millimeters--.05905 inch,
or practically 1/16 inch. Each one has twenty-two fins which gradually
taper down as the region of greatest pressure is departed from. In
addition to carrying away heat, the fins assist in strengthening the
walls of the cylinder. The barrel of the cylinder is slipped into the
hole bored for it on the circumference of the crank-case and secured by
a locking member in the nature of a stout compression ring, sprung onto
a groove on the base of the cylinder within the crank chamber. On each
lateral face of the crank chamber are seven holes, drilled right through
the chamber parallel with the crank-shaft. Each one of these holes
receives a stout locking-pin of such a diameter that it presses against
the split rings of two adjacent cylinders; in addition each cylinder is
fitted with a key-way. This construction is not always followed, some of
the early Gnome engines using the same system of cylinder retention as
used on the latest "monosoupape" pattern.

The exhaust valve is mounted in the cylinder head, Fig. 201, its seating
being screwed in by means of a special box spanner. On the
fourteen-cylinder model the valve is operated directly by an overhead
rocker arm with a gun metal rocker at its extremity coming in contact
with the extremity of the valve stem. As in standard motor car practice,
the valve is opened under the lift of the vertical push rod, actuated by
the cam. The distinctive feature is the use of a four-blade leaf spring
with a forked end encircling the valve stems and pressing against a
collar on its extremity. On the seven-cylinder model the movement is
reversed, the valve being opened on the downward pull of the push rod,
this lifting the outer extremity of the main rocker arm, which tips a
secondary and smaller rocker arm in direct contact with the extremity
of the valve stem. The springs are the same in each case. The two types
are compared at A and B, Fig. 202.

