[Illustration: Fig. 201.--Sectional View of Early Type Gnome Cylinder
and Piston Showing Construction and Application of Inlet and Exhaust
Valves.]

The pistons, like the cylinders, are machined out of the solid bar of
nickel steel, and have a portion of their wall cut away, so that the two
adjacent ones will not come together at the extremity of their stroke.
The head of the piston is slightly reduced in diameter and is provided
with a groove into which is fitted a very light L-section brass split
ring; back of this ring and carried within the groove is sprung a light
steel compression ring, serving to keep the brass ring in expansion. As
already mentioned, the intake valves are automatic, and are mounted in
the head of the piston as outlined at Fig. 202, C. The valve seating is
in halves, the lower portion being made to receive the wrist-pin and
connecting rod, and the upper portion, carrying the valve, being screwed
into it. The spring is composed of four flat blades, with the hollowed
stem of the automatic valve passing through their center and their two
extremities attached to small levers calculated to give balance against
centrifugal force. The springs are naturally within the piston, and are
lubricated by splash from the crank chamber. They are of a delicate
construction, for it is necessary that they shall be accurately balanced
so as to have no tendency to fly open under the action of centrifugal
force. The intake valve is withdrawn by the use of special tools through
the cylinder head, the exhaust valve being first dismounted.

[Illustration: Fig. 202.--Details of Old Style Gnome Motor Inlet and
Exhaust Valve Construction and Operation.]

The fourteen-cylinder motor shown at Fig. 203, has a two-throw
crank-shaft with the throws placed at 180 degrees, each one receiving
seven connecting rods. The parts are the same as for the seven-cylinder
motor, the larger one consisting of two groups placed side by side. For
each group of seven-cylinders there is one main connecting rod, together
with six auxiliary rods. The main connecting rod, which, like the
others, is of H section, has machined with it two L-section rings bored
with six holes--51-1/2 degrees apart to take the six other connecting
rods. The cage of the main connecting rod carries two ball races, one on
either side, fitting onto the crank-pin and receiving the thrust of the
seven connecting rods. The auxiliary connecting rods are secured in
position in each case by a hollow steel pin passing through the two
rings. It is evident that there is a slightly greater angularity for the
six shorter rods, known as auxiliary connecting rods, than for the
longer main rods; this does not appear to have any influence on the
running of the motor.

