[Illustration: Fig. 203.--The Gnome Fourteen-Cylinder 100 Horse-Power
Aviation Engine.]

Coming to the manner in which the earliest design exhaust valves are
operated on the old style motor, this at first sight appears to be one
of the most complicated parts of the motor, probably because it is one
in which standard practice is most widely departed from. Within the
cylindrical casing bolted to the rear face of the crank-case are seven,
thin flat-faced steel rings, forming female cams. Across a diameter of
each ring is a pair of projecting rods fitting in brass guides and
having their extremities terminating in a knuckle eye receiving the
adjustable push rods operating the overhead rocker arms of the exhaust
valve. The guides are not all in the same plane, the difference being
equal to the thickness of the steel rings, the total thickness being
practically 2 inches. Within the female cams is a group of seven male
cams of the same total thickness as the former and rotating within them.
As the boss of the male cam comes into contact with the flattened
portion of the ring forming the female cam, the arm is pushed outward
and the exhaust valve opened through the medium of the push-rod and
overhead rocker. This construction was afterwards changed to seven male
cams and simple valve operating plunger and roller cam followers as
shown at Fig. 204.

On the face of the crank-case of the fourteen-cylinder motor opposite to
the valve mechanism is a bolted-on end plate, carrying a pinion for
driving the two magnetos and the two oil pumps, and having bolted to it
the distributor for the high-tension current. Each group of
seven-cylinders has its own magneto and lubricating pump. The two
magnetos and the two pumps are mounted on the fixed platform carrying
the stationary crank-shaft, being driven by the pinion on the revolving
crank chamber. The magnetos are geared up in the proportion of 4 to 7.
Mounted on the end plate back of the driving pinion are the two
high-tension distributor plates, each one with seven brass segments let
into it and connection made to the plugs by means of plain brass wire.
The wire passes through a hole in the plug and is then wrapped round
itself, giving a loose connection.

