[Illustration: Fig. 204.--Cam and Cam-Gear Case of the Gnome
Seven-Cylinder Revolving Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 205.--Diagrams Showing Why An Odd Number of
Cylinders is Best for Rotary Cylinder Motors.]

A good many people doubtless wonder why rotary engines are usually
provided with an odd number of cylinders in preference to an even
number. It is a matter of even torque, as can easily be understood from
the accompanying diagram. Fig. 205, A, represents a six-cylinder rotary
engine, the radial lines indicating the cylinders. It is possible to
fire the charges in two ways, firstly, in rotation, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
thus having six impulses in one revolution and none in the next; or
alternately, 1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6, in which case the engine will have turned
through an equal number of degrees between impulses 1 and 3, and 3 and
5, but a greater number between 5 and 2, even again between 2 and 4, 4
and 6, and a less number between 6 and 1, as will be clearly seen on
reference to the diagram. Turning to Fig. 205, B, which represents a
seven-cylinder engine. If the cylinders fire alternately it is obvious
that the engine turns through an equal number of degrees between each
impulse, thus, 1, 3, 5, 7, 2, 4, 6, 1, 3, etc. Thus supposing the engine
to be revolving, the explosion takes place as each alternate cylinder
passes, for instance, the point 1 on the diagram, and the ignition is
actually operated in this way by a single contact.

[Illustration: Fig. 206.--Simple Carburetor Used On Early Gnome Engines
Attached to Fixed Crank-Shaft End.]

The crank-shaft of the Gnome, as already explained, is fixed and hollow.
For the seven- and nine-cylinder motors it has a single throw, and for
the fourteen- and eighteen-cylinder models has two throws at 180
degrees. It is of the built-up type, this being necessary on account of
the distinctive mounting of the connecting rods. The carburetor shown at
Fig. 206 is mounted at one end of the stationary crank-shaft, and the
mixture is drawn in through a valve in the piston as already explained.
There is neither float chamber nor jet. In many of the tests made at the
factory it is said the motor will run with the extremity of the gasoline
pipe pushed into the hollow crank-shaft, speed being regulated entirely
by increasing or decreasing the flow through the shut-off valve in the
base of the tank. Even under these conditions the motor has been
throttled down to run at 350 revolutions without misfiring. Its normal
speed is 1,000 to 1,200 revolutions a minute. Castor oil is used for
lubricating the engine, the oil being injected into the hollow
crank-shaft through slight-feed fittings by a mechanically operated pump
which is clearly shown in sectional diagrams at Fig. 207.

