[Illustration: Fig. 207.--Sectional Views of the Gnome Oil Pump.]

The Gnome is a considerable consumer of lubricant, the makers' estimate
being 7 pints an hour for the 100 horse-power motor; but in practice
this is largely exceeded. The gasoline consumption is given as 300 to
350 grammes per horse-power. The total weight of the fourteen-cylinder
motor is 220 pounds without fuel or lubricating oil. Its full power is
developed at 1,200 revolutions, and at this speed about 9 horse-power is
lost in overcoming air resistance to cylinder rotation.

[Illustration: Fig. 208.--Simplified Diagram Showing Gnome Motor Magneto
Ignition System.]

While the Gnome engine has many advantages, on the other hand, the head
resistance offered by a motor of this type is considerable; there is a
large waste of lubricating oil due to the centrifugal force which tends
to throw the oil away from the cylinders; the gyroscopic effect of the
rotary motor is detrimental to the best working of the aeroplane, and
moreover it requires about seven per cent. of the total power developed
by the motor to drive the revolving cylinders around the shaft. Of
necessity, the compression of this type of motor is rather low, and an
additional disadvantage manifests itself in the fact that there is as
yet no satisfactory way of muffling the rotary type of motor.


GNOME "MONOSOUPAPE" TYPE

The latest type of Gnome engine is known as the "monosoupape" type
because but one valve is used in the cylinder head, the inlet valve in
the piston being dispensed with on account of the trouble caused by that
member on earlier engines. The construction of this latest type follows
the lines established in the earlier designs to some extent and it
differs only in the method of charging. The very rich mixture of gas and
air is forced into the crank-case through the jet inside the
crank-shaft, and enters the cylinder when the piston is at its lowest
position, through the half-round openings in the guiding flange and the
small holes or ports machined in the cylinder and clearly shown at Fig.
210. The returning piston covers the port, and the gas is compressed and
fired in the usual way. The exhaust is through a large single valve in
the cylinder head, which gives rise to the name "monosoupape," or
single-valve motor, and this valve also remains open a portion of the
intake stroke to admit air into the cylinder and dilute the rich gas
forced in from the crank-case interior. Aviators who have used the early
form of Gnome say that the inlet valve in the piston type was prone to
catch on fire if any valve defect materialized, but the "monosoupape"
pattern is said to be nearly free of this danger. The bore of the 100
horse-power nine-cylinder engine is 110 mm., the piston stroke 150 mm.
Extremely careful machine work and fitting is necessary. In many parts,
tolerances of less than .0004" (four ten thousandths of an inch) are all
that are allowed. This is about one-sixth the thickness of the average
human hair, and in other parts the size must be absolutely standard, no
appreciable variation being allowable. The manufacture of this engine
establishes new mechanical standards of engine production in this
country. Much machine work is needed in producing the finished
components from the bar and forging.

