[Illustration: Fig. 209.--The G. V. Gnome "Monosoupape" Nine-Cylinder
Rotary Engine Mounted on Testing Stand.]

[Illustration: Fig. 210.--Sectional View Showing Construction of General
Vehicle Co. "Monosoupape" Gnome Engine.]

The cylinders, for example, are machined from 6 inch solid steel bars,
which are sawed into blanks 11 inches in length and weighing about 97
pounds. The first operation is to drill a 2-1/16 inch hole through the
center of the block. A heavy-duty drilling machine performs this work,
then the block goes to the lathe for further operations. Fig. 211 shows
six stages of the progress of a cylinder, a few of the intermediate
steps being omitted. These give, however, a good idea of the work done.
The turning of the gills, or cooling flanges, is a difficult
proposition, owing to the depth of the cut and the thin metal that forms
the gills. This operation requires the utmost care of tools and the use
of a good lubricant to prevent the metal from tearing as the tools
approach their full depth. These gills are only 0.6 mm., or 0.0237 in.,
thick at the top, tapering to a thickness of 1.4 mm. (0.0553 in.) at the
base, and are 16 mm. (0.632 in.) deep. When the machine work is
completed the cylinder weighs but 5-1/2 pounds.

[Illustration: Fig. 211.--How a Gnome Cylinder is Reduced from Solid
Chunk of Steel Weighing 97 Pounds to Finished Cylinder Weighing 5-1/2
Pounds.]


GNOME FUEL SYSTEM, IGNITION AND LUBRICATION

The following description of the fuel supply, ignition and oiling of the
"monosoupape," or single valve Gnome, is taken from "The Automobile."

Gasoline is fed to the engine by means of air pressure at 5 pounds per
sq. in., which is produced by the air pump on the engine clearly shown
at Fig. 210. A pressure gauge convenient to the operator indicates this
pressure, and a valve enables the operator to control it. No carburetor
is used. The gasoline flows from the tank through a shut-off valve near
the operator and through a tube leading through the hollow crank-shaft
to a spray nozzle located in the crank-case. There is no throttle valve,
and as each cylinder always receives the same amount of air as long as
the atmospheric pressure is the same, the output cannot be varied by
reducing the fuel supply, except within narrow limits. A fuel capacity
of 65 gallons is provided. The fuel consumption is at the rate of 12 U.
S. gallons per hour.

