The high-tension magnetos, with double cam or two break per revolution
interrupter, is located on the thrust plate in an inverted position, and
is driven at such a speed as to produce nine sparks for every two
revolutions; that is, at 2-1/4 times engine speed. A Splitdorf magneto
is fitted. There is no distributor on the magneto. The high-tension
collector brush of the magneto is connected to a distributor brush
holder carried in the bearer plate of the engine. The brush in this
brush holder is pressed against a distributor ring of insulating
material molded in position in the web of a gear wheel keyed to the
thrust plate, which gear serves also for starting the engine by hand.
Molded in this ring of insulating material are nine brass contact
sectors, connecting with contact screws at the back side of the gear,
from which bare wires connect to the spark-plugs. The distributor
revolves at engine speed, instead of at half engine speed as on ordinary
engines, and the distributor brush is brought into electrical connection
with each spark-plug every time the piston in the cylinder in which this
spark-plug is located approaches the outer dead center. However, on the
exhaust stroke no spark is being generated in the magneto, hence none is
produced at the spark-plug.

[Illustration: Fig. 212.--The Gnome Engine Cam-Gear Case, a Fine Example
of Accurate Machine Work.]

Ordinarily the engine is started by turning on the propeller, but for
emergency purposes as in seaplanes or for a quick "get away" if landing
inadvertently in enemy territory, a hand starting crank is provided.
This is supported in bearings secured to the pressed steel carriers of
the engine and is provided with a universal joint between the two
supports so as to prevent binding of the crank in the bearings due to
possible distortion of the supports. The gear on this starting crank and
the one on the thrust plate with which it meshes are cut with helical
teeth of such hand that the starting pinion is thrown out of mesh as
soon as the engine picks up its cycle. A coiled spring surrounds part of
the shaft of the starting crank and holds it out of gear when not in
use.

