[Illustration: Fig. 213.--G. V. Gnome "Monosoupape," with Cam-Case Cover
Removed to Show Cams and Valve-Operating Plungers with Roller Cam
Followers.]

Lubricating oil is carried in a tank of 25 gallon capacity, and if this
tank has to be placed in a low position it is connected with the
air-pressure line, so that the suction of the oil pump is not depended
upon to get the oil to the pump. From the bottom of the oil tank a pipe
leads to the pump inlet. There are two outlets from the pump, each
entering the hollow crank-shaft, and there is a branch from each outlet
pipe to a circulation indicator convenient to the operator. One of the
oil leads feeds to the housing in the thrust plate containing the two
rear ball bearings, and the other lead feeds through the crank-pin to
the cams, as already explained.

Owing to the effect of centrifugal force and the fact that the oil is
not used over again, the oil consumption of a revolving cylinder engine
is considerably higher than that of a stationary cylinder engine. Fuel
consumption is also somewhat higher, and for this reason the revolving
cylinder engine is not so well suited for types of airplanes designed
for long trips, as the increased weight of supplies required for such
trips, as compared with stationary cylinder type motors, more than
offsets the high weight efficiency of the engine itself. But for short
trips, and especially where high speed is required, as in single seated
scout and battle planes or "avions de chasse," as the French say, the
revolving cylinder engine has the advantage. The oil consumption of the
Gnome engine is as high as 2.4 gallon per hour. Castor oil is used for
lubrication because it is not cut by the gasoline mist present in the
engine interior as an oil of mineral derivation would be.


GERMAN "GNOME" TYPE ENGINE

[Illustration: Fig. 214.--The 50 Horse-Power Rotary Bayerischen Motoren
Gesellschaft Engine, a German Adaptation of the Early Gnome Design.]

A German adaptation of the Gnome design is shown at Fig. 214. This is
known as the Bayerischen Motoren Gesellschaft engine and the type shown
is an early design rated at 50 horse-power. The bore is 110 mm., the
stroke is 120 mm., and it is designed to run at a speed of 1,200 R. P.
M. It is somewhat similar in design to the early Gnome "valve-in-piston"
design except that two valves are carried in the piston top instead of
one. The valve operating arrangement is different also, as a single four
point cam is used to operate the seven exhaust valves. It is driven by
epicyclic gearing, the cam being driven by an internal gear machined
integrally with it, the cam being turned at 7/8 times the engine speed.
Another feature is the method of holding the cylinders on the
crank-case. The cylinder is provided with a flange that registers with a
corresponding member of the same diameter on the crank-case. A U
section, split clamping ring is bolted in place as shown, this holding
both flanges firmly together and keeping the cylinder firmly seated
against the crank-case flange. The "monosoupape" type has also been
copied and has received some application in Germany, but the most
successful German airplanes are powered with six-cylinder vertical
engines such as the Benz and Mercedes.

