
THE LE RHONE MOTOR

The Le Rhone motor is a radial revolving cylinder engine that has many
of the principles which are incorporated in the Gnome but which are
considered to be an improvement by many foreign aviators. Instead of
having but one valve in the cylinder head, as the latest type
"monosoupape" Gnome has, the Le Rhone has two valves, one for intake and
one for exhaust in each cylinder. By an ingenious rocker arm and tappet
rod arrangement it is possible to operate both valves with a single push
rod. Inlet pipes communicate with the crank-case at one end and direct
the fresh gas to the inlet valve cage at the other. Another peculiarity
in the design is the method of holding the cylinders in place. Instead
of having a vertically divided crank-case as the Gnome engine has and
clamping both halves of the case around the cylinders, the crank-case of
the Le Rhone engine is in the form of a cylinder having nine bosses
provided with threaded openings into which the cylinders are screwed. A
thread is provided at the base of each cylinder and when the cylinder
has been screwed down the proper amount it is prevented from further
rotation about its own axis by a substantial lock nut which screws down
against the threaded boss on the crank-case. The external appearance of
the Le Rhone type motor is clearly shown at Fig. 215, while the general
features of construction are clearly outlined in the sectional views
given at Figs. 216 and 217.

[Illustration: Fig. 215--Nine-Cylinder Revolving Le Rhone Type Aviation
Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 216.--Part Sectional Views of Le Rhone Rotary
Cylinder Engine, Showing Method of Cylinder Retention, Valve Operation
and Novel Crank Disc Assembly.]

[Illustration: Fig. 217.--Side Sectional View of Le Rhone Aviation
Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 218.--View Showing Le Rhone Valve Action and
Connecting Rod Big End Arrangement.]

The two main peculiarities of this motor are the method of valve
actuation by two large cams and the distinctive crank-shaft and
connecting rod big end construction. The connecting rods are provided
with "feet" or shoes on the end which fit into grooves lined with
bearing metal which are machined into crank discs revolving on ball
bearings and which are held together so that the connecting rod big ends
are sandwiched between them by clamping screws. This construction is a
modification of that used on the Anzani six-cylinder radial engine.
There are three grooves machined in each crank disc and three connecting
rod big ends run in each pair of grooves. The details of this
construction can be readily ascertained by reference to explanatory
diagrams at Figs. 218 and 219, A. Three of the rods which work in the
groove nearest the crank-pin are provided with short shoes as shown at
Fig. 219, B. The short shoes are used on the rods employed in cylinders
number 1, 4, and 7. The set of connecting rods that work in the central
grooves are provided with medium-length shoes and actuate the pistons in
cylinders numbers 3, 6, and 9. The three rods that work in the outside
grooves have still longer shoes and are employed in cylinders numbers 2,
5, and 8. The peculiar profile of the inlet and exhaust cam plates are
shown at C, Fig. 219, while the construction of the wrist-pin, wrist-pin
bushing and piston are clearly outlined at the sectional view at E. The
method of valve actuation is clearly outlined at Fig. 220, which shows
an end section through the cam case and also a partial side elevation
showing one of the valve operating levers which is fulcrumed at a
central point and which has a roller at one end bearing on one cam while
the roller or cam follower at the other end bears on the other cam. The
valve rocker arm actuating rod is, of course, operated by this simple
lever and is attached to it in such a way that it can be pulled down to
depress the inlet valve and pushed up to open the exhaust valve.

