[Illustration: Fig. 219.--Diagrams Showing Important Components of Le
Rhone Motor.]

[Illustration: Fig. 220.--How the Cams of the Le Rhone Motor Can Operate
Two Valves with a Single Push Rod.]

A carburetor of peculiar construction is employed in the Le Rhone
engine, this being a very simple type as outlined at Fig. 221. It is
attached to the threaded end of the hollow crank-shaft by a right and
left coupling. The fuel is pumped to the spray nozzle, the opening in
which is controlled by a fuel regulating needle having a long taper
which is lifted out of the jet opening when the air-regulating slide is
moved. The amount of fuel supplied the carburetor is controlled by a
special needle valve fitting which combines a filter screen and which is
shown at B. In regulating the speed of the Le Rhone engine, there are
two possible means of controlling the mixture, one by altering the
position of the air-regulating slide, which also works the metering
needle in the jet, and the other by controlling the amount of fuel
supplied to the spray nozzle through the special fitting provided for
that purpose.

[Illustration: Fig. 221.--The Le Rhone Carburetor at A and Fuel Supply
Regulating Device at B.]

In considering the action of this engine one can refer to Fig. 222. The
crank O. M. is fixed, while the cylinders can turn about the crank-shaft
center O and the piston turns around the crank-pin M, because of the
eccentricity of the centers of rotation the piston will reciprocate in
the cylinders. This distance is at its maximum when the cylinder is
above O and at a minimum when it is above M, and the difference between
these two positions is equal to the stroke, which is twice the distance
of the crank-throw O, M. The explosion pressure resolves itself into the
force F exerted along the line of the connecting rod A, M, and also into
a force N, which tends to make the cylinders rotate around point O in
the direction of the arrow. An odd number of cylinders acting on one
crank-pin is desirable to secure equally spaced explosions, as the basic
action is the same as the Gnome engine.

