[Illustration: Fig. 222.--Diagrams Showing Le Rhone Motor Action and
Firing Order.]

The magneto is driven by a gear having 36 teeth attached to crank-case
which meshes with 16-tooth pinion on armature. The magneto turns at 2.25
times crank-case speed. Two cams, one for inlet, one for exhaust, are
mounted on a carrying member and act on nine rocker arms which are
capable of giving a push-and-pull motion to the valve-actuating
rocker-operating rods. A gear driven by the crank-case meshes with a
larger member having internal teeth carried by the cam carrier. Each cam
has five profiles and is mounted in staggered relation to the other.
These give the nine fulcrumed levers the proper motion to open the inlet
and exhaust valves at the proper time. The cams are driven at 45/50 or
9/10 of the motor speed. The cylinder dimensions and timing follows; the
weight can be approximated by figuring 3 pounds per horse-power.

80 H.P.     105 M/M bore       4.20" bore.
140 M/M stroke     5.60" stroke.

110 H.P.     112 M/M bore       4.48" bore.
170 M/M stroke     6.80" stroke.

Timing--Intake valve opening, lag     18°}             18°}
Intake valve closing, lag     35°}             35°}
Exhaust valve opening, lead   55°} 110 H.P.    45°} 80 H.P.
Exhaust valve closing, lag     5°}              5°}
Ignition time advance         26°}             26°}

[Illustration: Fig. 223.--Diagram Showing Positions of Piston in Le
Rhone Rotary Cylinder Motor.]


THE RENAULT AIR-COOLED VEE ENGINE

[Illustration: Fig. 224.--Diagrams Showing Valve Timing of Le Rhone
Aviation Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 225.--Diagrams Showing How Cylinder Cooling is
Effected in Renault Vee Engines.]

Air-cooled stationary engines are rarely used in airplanes, but the
Renault Frères of France have for several years manufactured a complete
series of such engines of the general design shown at Fig. 225, ranging
from a low-powered one developed eight or nine years ago and rated at
40 and 50 horse-power, to later eight-cylinder models rated at 70
horse-power and a twelve-cylinder, or twin six, rated at 90 horse-power.
The cylinders are of cast iron and are furnished with numerous cooling
ribs which are cast integrally. The cylinder heads are separate
castings and are attached to the cylinder as in early motorcycle engine
practice, and serve to hold the cylinder in place on the aluminum alloy
crank-case by a cruciform yoke and four long hold-down bolts (Fig. 226).
The pistons are of cast steel and utilize piston rings of cast iron. The
valves are situated on the inner side of the cylinder head, the
arrangement being unconventional in that the exhaust valves are placed
above the inlet. The inlet valves seat in an extension of the combustion
head and are actuated by direct push rod and cam in the usual manner
while an overhead gear in which rockers are operated by push rods is
needed to actuate the exhaust valves. The valve action is clearly shown
in Figs. 226 and 227. The air stream by which the cylinders are cooled
is produced by a centrifugal or blower type fan of relatively large
diameter which is mounted on the end of a crank-shaft and the air blast
is delivered from this blower into an enclosed space between the
cylinder from which it escapes only after passing over the cooling fins.
In spite of the fact that considerable prejudice exists against
air-cooling fixed cylinder engines, the Renault has given very good
service in both England and France.

