[Illustration: Fig. 226.--End Sectional View of Renault Air-Cooled
Aviation Engine.]

[Illustration: Fig. 227.--Side Sectional View of Renault Twelve-Cylinder
Air-Cooled Aviation Engine Crank-Case, Showing Use of Plain and Ball
Bearings for Crank-Shaft Support.]

As will be seen by the sectional view at Fig. 227, the steel crank-shaft
is carried in a combination of plain bearings inside the crank-case and
by ball bearings at the ends. Owing to air cooling, special precautions
are taken with the lubrication system, though the lubrication is not
forced or under high pressure. An oil pump of the gear-wheel type
delivers oil from the sump at the bottom of the crank-case to a chamber
above, from which the oil flows by gravity along suitable channels to
the various main bearings. It flows from the bearings into hollow rings
fastened to the crank-webs, and the oil thrown from the whirling
connecting rod big ends bathes the internal parts in an oil mist. In the
eight-cylinder designs ignition is effected by a magneto giving four
sparks per revolution and is accordingly driven at engine speed. In the
twelve-cylinder machine two magnetos of the ordinary revolving armature
or two-spark type, each supplying six cylinders, are fitted as outlined
at Fig. 228. The carburetor is a float feed form. Warm air is supplied
for Winter and damp weather by air pipes surrounding the exhaust pipes.
The normal speed of the Renault engine is 1,800 R. P. M., but as the
propeller is mounted upon an extension of the cam-shaft the normal
propeller speed is but half that of the engine, which makes it possible
to use a propeller of large diameter and high efficiency. Owing to the
air cooling, but low compression may be used, this being about 60 pounds
per square inch, which, of course, lowers the mean effective pressure
and makes the engine less efficient than water-cooled forms where it is
possible to use compression pressure of 100 or more pounds per square
inch. The 70 horse-power engine has cylinders with a bore of 3.78 inches
and a stroke of 5.52 inches. Its weight is given as 396 pounds, when in
running order, which figures 5.7 pounds per horse-power. The same
cylinder size is used on the twelve-cylinder 100 horse-power and the
stroke is the same. This engine in running order weighs 638 pounds,
which figures approximately 6.4 pounds per B. H. P.

