[Illustration: Fig. 228.--End View of Renault Twelve-Cylinder Engine
Crank-Case, Showing Magneto Mounting.]

[Illustration: Fig. 229.--Diagram Outlining Renault Twelve-Cylinder
Engine Ignition System.]


SIMPLEX MODEL "A" HISPANO-SUIZA

The Model A is of the water-cooled four-cycle Vee type, with eight
cylinders, 4.7245 inch bore by 5.1182 inch stroke, piston displacement
718 cubic inches. At sea-level it develops 150 horse-power at 1,450 R.
P. M. It can be run successfully at much higher speeds, depending on
propeller design and gearing, developing proportionately increased
power. The weight, including carburetor, two magnetos, propeller hub,
starting magneto and crank, but without radiator, water or oil or
exhaust pipes, is 445 pounds. Average fuel consumption is .5 pound per
horse-power hour and the oil consumption at 1,450 R. P. M. is three
quarts per hour. The external appearance is shown at Fig. 230.

Four cylinders are contained in each block, which is of built-up
construction; the water jackets and valve ports are cast aluminum and
the individual cylinders heat-treated steel forgings threaded into the
bored holes of the aluminum castings. Each block after assembly is given
a number of protective coats of enamel, both inside and out, baked on.
Coats on the inside are applied under pressure. The pistons are aluminum
castings, ribbed. Connecting rods are tubular, of the forked type. One
rod bears directly on the crank-pin; the other rod has a bearing on the
outside of the one first mentioned.

The crank-shaft is of the five-bearing type, very short, stiff in
design, bored for lightness and for the oiling system. The crank-shaft
extension is tapered for the French standard propeller hub, which is
keyed and locked to the shaft. This makes possible instant change of
propellers. The case is in two halves divided on the center line of the
crank-shaft, the bearings being fitted between the upper and lower
sections. The lower half is deep, providing a large oil reservoir and
stiffening the engine. The upper half is simple and provides magneto
supports on extension ledges of the two main faces. The valves are of
large diameter with hollow stems, working in cast iron bushings. They
are directly operated by a single hollow cam-shaft located over the
valves. The cam-shafts are driven from the crank-shaft by vertical
shafts and bevel gears. The cam-shafts, cams and heads of the valve
stems are all enclosed in oil-tight removable housings of cast aluminum.

