A system of double springs is employed which greatly reduces the stress
on each spring and insures utmost reliability. A spring of extremely
large diameter returns the valve; a second spring located at the
cylinder base handles the push rod linkage. These springs, which operate
under low stress, are made from the best of steel and are given a
special double heat treatment. The pistons are made from a special
aluminum alloy; are deeply ribbed in the head for cooling and strength
and provided with two piston rings. These pistons are exceedingly light
weight in order to minimize vibration and prevent wear on the bearings.
The piston pin is made of chrome nickel steel, bored hollow and
hardened. It is allowed to turn, both in piston and connecting rod. The
piston rings are of special design, developed after years of
experimenting in aeronautical engines.

The connecting rods are of "H" section, machined all over from forgings
of a special air-hardening chrome nickel steel which, after being heat
treated has a tensile strength of 280,000 pounds per square inch. They
are consequently very strong and yet unusually light, and being machined
all over are of absolutely uniform section, which gives as nearly
perfect balance as can be obtained. The big ends are lined with white
metal and the small ends are bushed with phosphor bronze. The connecting
rods are all alike and take their bearings side by side on the
crank-pin, the cylinders being offset to permit of this arrangement. The
crank-shaft is machined from the highest grade chrome nickel steel, heat
treated in order to obtain the best properties of this material. It is
2-1/4 inches in diameter (57 mm.) and bored hollow throughout, insuring
maximum strength with minimum weight. It is carried in three large,
bronze-backed white metal bearings. A new method of producing these
bearings insures a perfect bond between the two metals and eliminates
breakage.

The base is cast from an aluminum alloy. Great strength and rigidity is
combined with light weight. The sides extend considerably below the
center line of the crank-shaft, providing an extremely deep section. At
all highly stressed points, deep ribs are provided to distribute the
load evenly and eliminate bending. The lower half of the base is of cast
aluminum alloy of extreme lightness. This collects the lubricating oil
and acts as a small reservoir for same. An oil-filtering screen of large
area covers the entire surface of the sump. The propeller shaft is
carried on two large annular ball bearings driven from the crank-shaft
by hardened chrome nickel steel spur gears. These gears are contained
within an oil-tight casing integral with the base on the opposite end
from the timing gears. A ball-thrust bearing is provided on the
propeller shaft to take the thrust of a propeller or tractor, as the
case may be. In case of the direct drive a stub shaft is fastened direct
to the crank-shaft and is fitted with a double thrust bearing.

