The cam-shaft is contained within the upper half of the base between the
two groups of cylinders, and is supported in six bronze bearings. It is
bored hollow throughout and the cams are formed integral with the shaft
and ground to the proper shape and finish. An important development in
the shape of cams has resulted in a maintained increase of power at high
speeds. The gears operating the cam-shaft, magneto, oil and water pumps
are contained within an oil-tight casing and operate in a bath of oil.

Lubrication is of the complete forced circulating system, the oil being
supplied to every bearing under high pressure by a rotary pump of large
capacity. This is operated by gears from the crank-shaft. The oil
passages from the pump to the main bearings are cast integral with the
base, the hollow crank-shaft forming a passage through the connecting
rod bearings and the hollow cam-shaft distributing the oil to the
cam-shaft bearings. The entire surface of the lower half of the base is
covered with a fine mesh screen through which the oil passes before
reaching the pump. Approximately one gallon of oil is contained within
the base and this is continually circulated through an external tank by
a secondary pump operated by an eccentric on the cam-shaft. This also
draws fresh oil from the external tank which can be made of any desired
capacity.


SPECIFICATIONS--MODEL 5A TYPE 8

Horse-power rating, 140 at 2,000 R. P. M.
Bore, 4 inches = 102 mm.
Stroke, 5-1/2 inches = 140 mm.
Number of cylinders, 8.
Arrangement of cylinders, "V."
Cooling, water. Circulation by centrifugal pump.
Cycle, four stroke.
Ignition (double), 2 Bosch or Splitdorf magnetos.
Carburetor, Zenith duplex. Water jacket manifold.
Oiling system, complete forced. Circulating gear pump.
Normal crank-shaft speed, 2,000 R. P. M.
Propeller shaft, 3/5 crank-shaft speed at normal, 1,200 R. P. M.
Stated power at 30" barometer, 140 B. H. P.
Stated weight with all accessories but without water, gasoline or oil,
514 pounds = 234 kilos.
Weight per B. H. P., 3.7 pounds = 1.68 kilos.
Stated weight with all accessories with water, 550 pounds = 250 kilos.
Weight per B. H. P. with water, 3.95 pounds = 1.79 kilos.

