
THE CURTISS AVIATION MOTORS

The Curtiss OX motor has eight cylinders, 4-inch bore, 5-inch stroke,
delivers 90 horse-power at 1,400 turns, and the weight turns out at 4.17
pounds per horse-power. This motor has cast iron cylinders with monel
metal jackets, overhead inclined valves operated by means of two rocker
arms, push-and-pull rods from the central cam-shaft located in the
crank-case. The cam and push rod design is extremely ingenious and the
whole valve construction turns out very light. This motor is an
evolution from the early Curtiss type motor which was used by Glenn
Curtiss when he won the Gordon Bennett Cup at Rheims. A slightly larger
edition of this type motor is the OXX-5, as shown at Figs. 231 and 232,
which has cylinders 4-1/4 inches by 5 inches, delivers 100 horse-power
at 1,400 turns and has the same fuel and oil consumption as the OX type
motor, namely, .60 pound of fuel per brake horse-power hour and .03
pound of lubricating oil per brake horse-power hour.

[Illustration: Fig. 231.--The Curtiss OXX-5 Aviation Engine is an
Eight-Cylinder Type Largely Used on Training Machines.]

The Curtiss Company have developed in the last two years a larger-sized
motor now known as the V-2, which was originally rated at 160
horse-power and which has since been refined and improved so that the
motor gives 220 horse-power at 1,400 turns, with a fuel consumption of
52/100 of a pound per brake horse-power hour and an oil consumption of
.02 of a pound per brake horse-power hour. This larger motor has a
weight of 3.45 pounds per horse-power and is now said to be giving very
satisfactory service. The V-2 motor has drawn steel cylinders, with a
bore of 5 inches and a stroke of 7 inches, with a steel water jacket top
and a monel metal cylindrical jacket, both of which are brazed on to the
cylinder barrel itself. Both these motors use side by side connecting
rods and fully forced lubrication. The cam-shafts act as a gallery from
which the oil is distributed to the cam-shaft bearings, the main
crank-shaft bearings, and the gearing. Here again we find extremely
short rods, which, as before mentioned, enables the height and the
consequent weight of construction to be very much reduced. For ordinary
flying at altitudes of 5,000 to 6,000 feet, the motors are sent out with
an aluminum liner, bolted between the cylinder and the crank-case in
order to give a compression ratio which does not result in pre-ignition
at a low altitude. For high flying, however, these aluminum liners are
taken out and the compression volume is decreased to about 18.6 per
cent. of the total volume.

