The statement often made in the past, that the gearing down of an engine
costs more in the weight of reduction gears and propeller shaft than is
warranted by the increase in horse-power, is seldom heard to-day.

The mean effective pressure remaining the same, the brake horse-power of
any engine increases as the speed. That is, an engine delivering 100
brake horse-power at 1,500 revolutions per minute will show 133 brake
horse-power at 2,000 revolutions per minute, an increase of 33 brake
horse-power. To utilize this increase in horse-power, a matter of some
fifteen pounds must be spent in gearing and another fifteen perhaps on
larger valves, bearings, etc. Two per cent. may be assumed lost in the
gears. In other words, the increase in horse-power due to increasing the
speed has been attained at the expense of about one pound per brake
horse-power.

The advantages of the eight-cylinder engine over the six and twelve,
briefly stated, are: lower weight per horse-power, shorter length,
simpler and stiffer crank-shaft, cam-shaft and crank-case, and simpler
and more direct manifold arrangement. As to torque, the eight is
superior to the six, and yet in practice not enough inferior to the
twelve to warrant the addition of four more cylinders. It must, however,
be recognized that the eight is subject to the action of inherent
unbalanced inertia couples, which set up horizontal vibrations,
impossible of total elimination. These vibrations are functions of the
reciprocating weights, which, as already mentioned, are cut down to the
minimum. Vibrations due to the elasticity of crank-case, crank-shaft,
etc., can be and are reduced in the Thomas engine to minor quantities by
ample webbing of the crank-case and judicious use of metal elsewhere.
All things considered, there is actually so little difference to be
discerned between the balance of a properly designed eight-cylinder
engine and that of a six or twelve as to make a discussion of the pros
and cons more one of theory than of practice.

