The main criticisms of the L head cylinder engine are that it is less
efficient and heavier. This is granted, as it relates to cylinders
alone. More thorough investigation, however, based on the main
desideratum, weight-power ratio, leads us to other conclusions,
particularly with reference to high speed engines. The valve gear must
not be forgotten. A cylinder cannot be taken completely away from its
component parts and judged, as to its weight value, by itself alone. A
part away from the whole becomes an item unimportant in comparison with
the whole. The valve gear of a high speed engine is a too often
overlooked feature. The stamp of approval has been made by high speed
automobile practice upon the overhead cam-shaft drive, with valves in
the cylinder head operated direct from the cam-shaft or by means of
valve lifters or short rockers.

The overhead cam-shaft mechanism applied to an eight-cylinder engine
calls for two separate cam-shafts carried above and supported by the
cylinders in an oil-tight housing, and driven by a series of spur gears
or bevels from the crank-shaft. It is patent that this valve gearing is
heavy and complicated in comparison with the simple moving valve units
of the L head engine, which are operated from one single cam-shaft,
housed rigidly in the crank-case. The inherently lower volumetric
efficiency of the L head engine is largely overcome by the use of a
properly designed head, large valves and ample gas passages. Again, the
customary use of a dual ignition system gives to the L head a relatively
better opportunity for the advantageous placing of spark-plugs, in order
that better flame propagation and complete combustion may be secured.

[Illustration: Fig. 233.--End View of Thomas-Morse 150 Horse-Power
Aluminum Cylinder Aviation Motor Having Detachable Cylinder Heads.]

The Thomas Model 88 engine is 4-1/8 inch bore and 5-1/2 inch stroke. The
cylinders and cylinder heads are of aluminum, and as steel liners are
used in the cylinders the pistons are also made of aluminum. This engine
is actually lighter than the earlier model of less power. It weighs but
525 pounds, with self-starter. The general features of design can be
readily ascertained by study of the illustrations: Fig. 233, which shows
an end view; Fig. 234, which is a side view, and Fig. 235, which
outlines the reduction gear-case and the propeller shaft supporting
bearings.

