The oiling system of this sixteen-valve Duesenberg motor is one of its
vital features. An oil pump located in the base and submerged in oil
forces oil through cored passages to the three main bearings, then
through tubes under each connecting rod into which the rod dips. The oil
is thrown off from these and lubricates every part of the motor. This
constitutes the main oiling system; it is supplemented by a splash
system, there being a trough under each connecting rod into which the
rod slips. The oil is returned to the main supply sump by gravity, where
it is strained and re-used. Either system is in itself sufficient to
operate the motor. A pressure gauge is mounted for observation on a
convenient part of the system. A pressure of approximately 25 pounds is
maintained by the pressure system, which insures efficient lubrication
at all speeds of the motor. The troughs under the connecting rods are so
constructed that no matter what the angle of flight may be, oil is
retained in each individual trough so that each connecting rod can dip
up its supply of oil at each revolution.


AEROMARINE SIX-CYLINDER VERTICAL MOTOR

[Illustration: Fig. 236.--The Six-Cylinder Aeromarine Engine.]

These motors are four-stroke cycle, six-cylinder vertical type, with
cylinder 4-5/16" bore by 5-1/8" stroke. The general appearance of this
motor is shown in illustration at Fig. 236. This engine is rated at
85-90 horse-power. All reciprocating and revolving parts of this motor
are made of the highest grades of steel obtainable as are the studs,
nuts and bolts. The upper and lower parts of crank-case are made of
composition aluminum casting. Lower crank-case is made of high grade
aluminum composition casting and is bolted directly to the upper half.
The oil reservoir in this lower half casting provides sufficient oil
capacity for five hours' continuous running at full power. Increased
capacity can be provided if needed to meet greater endurance
requirements. Oil is forced under pressure to all bearings by means of
high-pressured duplex-geared pumps. One side of this pump delivers oil
under pressure to all the bearings, while the other side draws the oil
from the splash case and delivers it to the main sump. The oil reservoir
is entirely separate from the crank-case chamber. Under no circumstances
will oil flood the cylinder, and the oiling system is not affected in
any way by any angle of flight or position of motor. An oil pressure
gauge is placed on instrument board of machine, which gives at all
times the pressure in oil system, and a sight glass at lower half of
case indicates the amount of oil contained. The oil pump is external on
magneto end of motor, and is very accessible. An external oil strainer
is provided, which is removable in a few minutes' time without the loss
of any oil. All oil from reservoir to the motor passes through this
strainer. Pressure gauge feed is also attached and can be piped to any
part of machine desired.

