The cylinders are made of high-grade castings and are machined and
ground accurately to size. Cylinders are bolted to crank-case with
chrome nickel steel studs and nuts which securely lock cylinder to upper
half of crank-case. The main retaining cylinder studs go through
crank-case and support crank-shaft bearings so that crank-shaft and
cylinders are tied together as one unit. Water jackets are of copper,
1/16" thick, electrically deposited. This makes a non-corrosive metal.
Cooling is furnished by a centrifugal pump, which delivers 25 gallons
per minute at 1,400 R. P. M. Pistons are made cast iron, accurately
machined and ground to exact dimensions, which are carefully balanced.
Piston rings are semi-steel rings of Aeromarine special design.

Connecting rods are of chrome nickel steel, H-section. Crank-shaft is
made of chrome nickel steel, machined all over, and cut from solid
billet, and is accurately balanced through the medium of balance weights
being forged integral with crank. It is drilled for lightness and
plugged for force feed lubrication. There are seven main bearings to
crank-shaft. All bearings are of high-grade babbitt, die cast, and are
interchangeable and easily replaced. The main bearings of the
crank-shaft are provided with a single groove to take oil under pressure
from pressure tube which is cast integral with case. Connecting rod
bearings are of the same type. The gudgeon pin is hardened, ground and
secured in connecting rod, and is allowed to work in piston. Cam-shaft
is of steel, with cams forged integral, drilled for lightness and
forced-feed lubrication, and is case-hardened. The bearings of
cam-shaft are of bronze. Magneto, two high-tension Bosch D. U. 6. The
intake manifold for carburetors are aluminum castings and are so
designed that each carburetor feeds three cylinders, thereby insuring
easy flow of vapor at all speeds. Weight, 420 pounds.

[Illustration: Fig. 237.--The Wisconsin Aviation Engine, at Top, as
Viewed from Carburetor Side. Below, the Exhaust Side.]

