The connecting rods are tubular and machined from chrome vanadium steel
forgings. Oil tubes are fitted to the rods which carry the oil up to the
wrist-pins and pistons. The rods complete with bushings weigh 5-1/2
pounds each. The pistons are made of aluminum alloy and are very light
and strong, weighing only 2 pounds 2 ounces each. Two leak-proof rings
are fitted to each piston. The wrist-pins are hollow, of hardened steel,
and are free to turn either in the piston or the rod. A bronze bushing
is fitted in the upper end of the rod, but no bushing is fitted in the
pistons, the hardened steel wrist-pins making an excellent bearing in
the aluminum alloy.

[Illustration: Fig. 240.--Power, Torque and Efficiency Curves of
Wisconsin Aviation Motor.]

The water circulation is by centrifugal pump, which is mounted at the
lower end of the vertical shaft. The water is pumped through brass pipes
to the lower end of the cylinder water jackets and leaves the upper end
of the jackets just above the exhaust valves. The lubricating system is
one of the main features of the engines, being designed to work with the
motor at any angle. The oil is carried in the sump, from where it is
taken by the oil circulating pump through a strainer and forced through
a header, extending the full length of the crank-case, and distributed
to the main bearings. From the main bearings it is forced through the
hollow crank-shaft to the connecting rod big ends and then through
tubes on the rods to wrist-pins and pistons. Another lead takes oil from
the main header to the cam-shaft bearings. The oil forced out of the
ends of the cam-shaft bearings fills pockets under the cams and in the
cam rocker levers. The excess flows back through pipes and through the
train of gears to the crank-case. A strainer is fitted at each end of
the crank-case, through which the oil is drawn by separate pumps and
returned to the sump. Either one of these pumps is large enough to take
care of all of the return oil, so that the operation is perfect whether
the motor is inclined up or down. No splash is used in the crank-case,
the system being a full force feed. An oil level indicator is provided,
showing the amount of oil in the sump at all times. The oil pressure in
these motors is carried at ten pounds, a relief valve being fitted to
hold the pressure constant.

