
PRINCIPAL DIMENSIONS

Following are the principal dimensions of the six-cylinder motor:

Bore 5 inches.
Stroke 6-1/2 inches.
Crank-shaft diameter throughout 2 inches.
Length of crank-pin and main bearings 3-1/2 inches.
Diameter of valves 3 inches (2-3/4 inches clear).
Lift of valves 1/2 inch.
Volume of compression space 22 per cent. of total.
Diameter of wrist-pins 1-3/16 inches.
Firing order 1-4-2-6-3-5.

The horse-power developed at 1200 revolutions per minute is 130, at 1300
revolutions per minute 140, at 1400 revolutions per minute 148. 1400 is
the maximum speed at which it is recommended to run these motors.


TWELVE-CYLINDER ENGINE

A twelve-cylinder V-type engine illustrated, is also being built by this
company, similar in dimensions of cylinders to the six. The principal
differences being in the drive to cam-shaft, which is through spur gears
instead of bevel. A hinged type of connecting rod is used which does not
increase the length of the motor and, at the same time, this
construction provides for ample bearings. A double centrifugal water
pump is provided for this motor, so as to distribute the water uniformly
to both sets of cylinders. Four magnetos are used, two for each set of
six cylinders. The magnetos are very accessibly located on a bracket on
the spur gear cover. The carburetors are located on the outside of the
motors, where they are very accessible, while the exhaust is in the
center of the valley. The crank-shaft on the twelve is 2-1/2 inches in
diameter and the shaft is bored to reduce weight. Dimensioned drawings
of the twelve-cylinder engine are given at Figs. 242 and 243 and should
prove useful for purposes of comparison with other motors.


HALL-SCOTT AVIATION ENGINES

The following specifications of the Hall-Scott "Big Four" engines apply
just as well to the six-cylinder vertical types which are practically
the same in construction except for the structural changes necessary to
accommodate the two extra cylinders. Cylinders are cast separately from
a special mixture of semi-steel, having cylinder head with valve seats
integral. Special attention has been given to the design of the water
jacket around the valves and head, there being two inches of water space
above same. The cylinder is annealed, rough machined, then the inner
cylinder wall and valve seats ground to mirror finish. This adds to the
durability of the cylinder, and diminishes a great deal of the excess
friction.

