[Illustration: Fig. 242.--Dimensioned End View of Wisconsin
Twelve-Cylinder Airplane Motor.]

Great care is taken in the casting and machining of these cylinders, to
have the bore and walls concentric with each other. Small ribs are cast
between outer and inner walls to assist cooling as well as to transfer
stresses direct from the explosion to hold-down bolts which run from
steel main bearing caps to top of cylinders. The cylinders are machined
upon the sides so that when assembled on the crank-case with grooved
hold-down washers tightened, they form a solid block, greatly assisting
the rigidity of crank-case.

[Illustration: Fig. 243.--Dimensioned Side Elevation of Wisconsin
Twelve-Cylinder Airplane Motor.]

The connecting rods are very light, being of the I beam type, milled
from a solid Chrome nickel die forging. The caps are held on by two
1/2"-20 thread Chrome nickel through bolts. The rods are first roughed
out, then annealed. Holes are drilled, after which the rods are hardened
and holes ground parallel with each other. The piston end is fitted with
a gun metal bushing, while the crank-pin end carries two bronze serrated
shells, which are tinned and babbitted hot, being broached to harden the
babbitt. Between the cap and rod proper are placed laminated shims for
adjustment. Crank-cases are cast of the best aluminum alloy, hand
scraped and sand blasted inside and out. The lower oil case can be
removed without breaking any connections, so that the connecting rods
and other working parts can readily be inspected. An extremely large
strainer and dirt trap is located in the center and lowest point of the
case, which is easily removed from the outside without disturbing the
oil pump or any working parts. A Zenith carburetor is provided.
Automatic valves and springs are absent, making the adjustment simple
and efficient. This carburetor is not affected by altitude to any
appreciable extent. A Hall-Scott device, covered by U. S. Patent No.
1,078,919, allows the oil to be taken direct from the crank-case and run
around the carburetor manifold, which assists carburetion as well as
reduces crank-case heat. Two waterproof four-cylinder Splitdorf "Dixie"
magnetos are provided. Both magneto interruptors are connected to a rock
shaft integral with the motor, making outside connections unnecessary.
It is worthy of note that with this independent double magneto system,
one complete magneto can become inoperative, and still the motor will
run and continue to give good power.

