The pistons as provided in the A-7 engines are cast from a mixture of
steel and gray iron. These are extremely light, yet provided with six
deep ribs under the arch head, greatly aiding the cooling of the piston
as well as strengthening it. The piston pin bosses are located very low
in order to keep the heat from the piston head away from the upper end
of the connecting rod, as well as to arrange them at the point where the
piston fits the cylinder best. Three 1/4" rings are carried. The pistons
as provided in the A-7a engines are cast from aluminum alloy. Four 1/4"
rings are carried. In both piston types a large diameter, heat treated,
Chrome nickel steel wrist-pin is provided, assembled in such a way as to
assist the circular rib between the wrist-pin bosses to keep the piston
from being distorted from the explosions.

The oiling system is known as the high pressure type, oil being forced
to the under side of the main bearings with from 5 to 30 points
pressure. This system is not affected by extreme angles obtained in
flying, or whether the motor is used for push or pull machines. A large
gear pump is located in the lowest point of the oil sump, and being
submerged at all times with oil, does away with troublesome stuffing
boxes and check valves. The oil is first drawn from the strainer in oil
sump to the long jacket around the intake manifold, then forced to the
main distributor pipe in crank-case, which leads to all main bearings. A
bi-pass, located at one end of the distributor pipe, can be regulated to
provide any pressure required, the surplus oil being returned to the
case. A special feature of this system is the dirt, water and sediment
trap, located at the bottom of the oil sump. This can be removed without
disturbing or dismantling the oil pump or any oil pipes. A small oil
pressure gauge is provided, which can be run to the aviator's instrument
board. This registers the oil pressure, and also determines its
circulation.

The cooling of this motor is accomplished by the oil as well as the
water, this being covered by patent No. 1,078,919. This is accomplished
by circulating the oil around a long intake manifold jacket; the
carburetion of gasoline cools this regardless of weather conditions.
Crank-case heat is therefore kept at a minimum. The uniform temperature
of the cylinders is maintained by the use of ingenious internal outlet
pipes, running through the head of each of the six-cylinders, rubber
hose connections being used so that any one of the cylinders may be
removed without disturbing the others. Slots are cut in these pipes so
that cooler water is drawn directly around the exhaust valves. Extra
large water jackets are provided upon the cylinders, two inches of water
space is left above the valves and cylinder head. The water is
circulated by a large centrifugal pump insuring ample circulation at all
speeds.

