The crank-shaft is of the five bearing type, being machined from a
special heat treated drop forging of the highest grade nickel steel. The
forging is first drilled, then roughed out. After this the shaft is
straightened, turned down to a grinding size, then ground accurately to
size. The bearing surfaces are of extremely large size, over-size,
considering general practice in the building of high speed engines of
similar bore and stroke. The crank-shaft bearings are 2" in diameter by
1-15/16" long, excepting the rear main bearing, which is 4-3/8" long,
and front main bearing, which is 2-3/16" long. Steel oil scuppers are
pinned and sweated onto the webs of the shaft, which allows of properly
oiling the connecting rod bearings. Two thrust bearings are installed on
the propeller end of the shaft, one for pull and the other for push. The
propeller is driven by the crank-shaft flange, which is securely held in
place upon the shaft by six keys. These drive an outside propeller
flange, the propeller being clamped between them by six through bolts.
The flange is fitted to a long taper on crank-shaft. This enables the
propeller to be removed without disturbing the bolts. Timing gears and
starting ratchets are bolted to a flange turned integral with shaft.

The cam-shaft is of the one piece type, air pump eccentric, and gear
flange being integral. It is made from a low carbon specially heat
treated nickel forging, is first roughed out and drilled entire length;
the cams are then formed, after which it is case hardened and ground to
size. The cam-shaft bearings are extra long, made from Parson's White
Brass. A small clutch is milled in gear end of shaft to drive revolution
indicator. The cam-shaft is enclosed in an aluminum housing bolted
directly on top of all six cylinders, being driven by a vertical shaft
in connection with bevel gears. This shaft, in conjunction with rocker
arms, rollers and other working parts, are oiled by forcing the oil into
end of shaft, using same as a distributor, allowing the surplus supply
to flow back into the crank-case through hollow vertical tube. This
supply oils the magneto and pump gears. Extremely large Tungsten valves,
being one-half the cylinder diameter, are seated in the cylinder heads.
Large diameter oil tempered springs held in tool steel cups, locked with
a key, are provided. The ports are very large and short, being designed
to allow the gases to enter and exhaust with the least possible
resistance. These valves are operated by overhead one piece cam-shaft in
connection with short Chrome nickel rocker arms. These arms have
hardened tool steel rollers on cam end with hardened tool steel
adjusting screws opposite. This construction allows accurate valve
timing at all speeds with least possible weight.

