
CENSORED


GERMAN AIRPLANE MOTORS

In a paper on "Aviation Motors," presented by E. H. Sherbondy before the
Cleveland section of the S. A. E. in June, 1917, the Mercedes and Benz
airplane motor is discussed in some detail and portions of the
description follow.

[Illustration: Fig. 244.--Side and End Sectional Views of Four-Cylinder
Argus Engine, a German 100 Horse-Power Design Having Bore and Stroke of
140 mm., or 5.60 inches, and Developing Its Power at 1,368 R.P.M.
Weight, 350 Pounds.]


MERCEDES MOTOR

The 150 horse-power six-cylinder Mercedes motor is 140 millimeters bore
and 160 millimeters stroke. The Mercedes company started with
smaller-sized cylinders, namely 100 millimeters bore and 140 millimeters
stroke, six-cylinders. The principal features of the design are forged
steel cylinders with forged steel elbows for gas passages, pressed steel
water jackets, which when welded together forms the cylinder
assembly, the use of inclined overhead valves operated by means of an
overhead cam-shaft through rocker arms which multiply with the motion of
the cam. By the use of steel cylinders, not only is the weight greatly
reduced, but certain freedom from distortion through unequal sections,
leaks and cracks are entirely avoided. The construction is necessarily
very expensive. It is certainly a sound job. In the details of this
construction there are a number of important things, such as finished
gas passages, water-cooled valve guides and a very small mass of metal,
which is water-cooled, surrounding the spark-plug. Of course, it is
necessary to use very high compression in aviation motors in order to
secure high power and economy and owing to the fact that aviation motors
are worked at nearly their maximum, the heat flow through the cylinder,
piston, and valves is many times higher than that encountered in
automobile motors. It has been found necessary to develop special types
of pistons to carry the heat from the center of the head in order to
prevent pre-ignition. In the Mercedes motor the pistons have a drop
forged steel head which includes the piston boss and this head is
screwed into a cast iron skirt which has been machined inside to secure
uniform wall thickness.

