The carburetor used on this 150 horse-power Mercedes motor is precisely
of the same type used on the Twin Six motor. It has two venturi throats,
in the center of which is placed the gasoline spray nozzle of
conventional type, fixed size orifices, immediately above which are
placed two panel type throttles with side outlets. An idling or primary
nozzle is arranged to discharge above the top of the venturi throat. The
carburetor body is of cast aluminum and is water jacketed. It is bolted
directly to air passage passing through the top and bottom half of the
crank-case which passes down through the oil reservoir. The air before
reaching the carburetor proper to some extent has cooled the oil in the
crank chamber and has itself been heated to assist in the vaporization.
The inlet pipes themselves are copper. All the passages between the
venturi throat and the inlet valve have been carefully finished and
polished. The only abnormal thing in the design of this motor is the
short connecting rod which is considerably less than twice the stroke
and would be considered very bad practice in motor car engines. A short
connecting rod, however, possesses two very real virtues in that it cuts
down height of the motor and the piston passes over the bottom dead
center much more slowly than with a long rod.

[Illustration: Fig. 245.--Part Sectional View of 90 Horse-Power Mercedes
Engine, Which is Typical of the Design of Larger Sizes.]

Other features of the design are a very stiff crank-case, both halves of
which are bolted together by means of long through bolts, the
crank-shaft main bearings are seated in the lower half of the case
instead of in the usual caps and no provision is made for taking up the
main bearings. The Mercedes company uses a plunger type of pump having
mechanically operated piston valves and it is driven by means of worm
gearing.

The overhead cam-shaft construction is extremely light. The cam-shaft is
mounted in a nearly cylindrical cast bronze case and is driven by means
of bevel gears from the crank-shaft. The vertical bevel gear shaft
through which the drive is taken from the crank-shaft to the cam-shaft
operates at one and one-half times the crank-shaft speeds and the
reduction to the half-time cam-shaft is secured through a pair of
bevels. On this vertical shaft there is mounted the water pump and a
bevel gear for driving two magnetos. The water pump mounted on this
shaft tends to steady the drive and avoid vibration in the gearing.

