The Benz cylinder is a simple, straightforward design and a very
reliable construction and not particularly difficult to manufacture. The
cylinder is cast of iron without a water jacket but including 45
degrees angle elbows to the valve ports. The cylinders are machined
wherever possible and at other points have been hand filed and scraped,
after which a jacket, which is pressed in two halves, is gas welded by
means of short pipes welded on to the jacket. The bottom and the top of
the cylinders become water galleries, and by this means separate water
pipes with their attendant weight and complication are eliminated.
Rubber rings held in aluminum clamps serve to connect the cylinders
together. The whole construction turns out very neat and light. The
cylinder walls are 4 mm. or 3/16" thick and the combustion chamber is of
cylindrical pancake form and is 140 mm. or 5.60 inch in diameter. The
valve seats are 68 mm. in diameter and the valve port is 62 mm. in
diameter.

The passage joining the port is 57 mm. in diameter. In order to insert
the valves into the cylinder the valve stem is made with two diameters
and the valve has to be cocked to insert it in the guide, which has a
bronze bushing at its upper end to compensate for the smaller valve stem
diameter. The valve stem is 14 mm. or 9/16" in diameter and is reduced
at its upper portion to 9-1/2 mm. The valves are operated through a push
rod and rocker arm construction, which is 7/16" and exceedingly light.
Rocker arm supports are steel studs with enlarged heads to take a double
row ball bearing. A roller is mounted at one end of the rocker arm to
impinge on the end of the valve stem, and the rocker arm has an
adjustable globe stud at the other end. The push rods are light steel
tubes with a wall thickness of 0.75 mm. and have a hardened steel cup at
their upper end to engage the rocker arm globe stud and a hardened steel
globe at their lower end to socket in the roller plunger.

The Benz cam-shaft has a diameter of 26 mm. and is bored straight
through 18 mm. and there is a spiral gear made integrally with the shaft
in about the center of its length for driving the oil pump gear. The cam
faces are 10 mm. wide. There is also, in addition to the intake and
exhaust cams, a set of half compression cams. The shaft is moved
longitudinally in its bearings by means of an eccentric to put these
cams into action. At the fore end of the shaft is a driving gear flange
which is very small in diameter and very thin. The flange is 68 mm. in
diameter and 4 mm. thick and is tapped to take 6 mm. bolts. The total
length of cam-shaft is 1038 mm., and it becomes a regular gun boring job
to drill a hole of this length.

