The cam-shaft gear is 140 mm. or 5-1/2 inches outside diameter. It has
fifty-four teeth and the gear face is 15 mm. or 19/32". The flange and
web have an average thickness of 4 mm. or 5/32" and the web is drilled
full of holes interposed between the spur gear mounted on the cam-shaft
and the cam-shaft gear. There is a gear which serves to drive the
magnetos and tachometer, also the air pump. The shaft is made integrally
with this gear and has an eccentric portion against which the air pump
roll plunger impinges.

The seven-bearing crank-shaft is finished all over in a beautiful
manner, and the shaft out of the particular motor we have shows no signs
of wear whatever. The crank-pins are 55 mm. in diameter and 69 mm. long.
Through both the crank-pin and main bearings there is drilled a 28 mm.
hole, and the crank cheeks are plugged with solder. The crank cheeks are
also built to convey the lubricant to the crank-pins. At the fore end of
the crank cheek there is pressed on a spur driving gear. There is
screwed on to the front end of the shaft a piece which forms a bevel
water pump driving gear and the starting dog. At the rear end of the
shaft very close to the propeller hub mounting there is a double thrust
bearing to take the propeller thrust.

Long, shouldered studs are screwed into the top half of the crank-case
portion of the case and pass clean through the bottom half of the case.
The case is very stiff and well ribbed. The three center bearing
diaphragms have double walls. The center one serves as a duct through
which water pipe passes, and those on either side of the center form the
carburetor intake air passages and are enlarged in section at one side
to take the carburetor barrel throttle.

The pistons are of cast iron and carry three concentric rings 1/4 inch
wide on their upper end, which are pinned at the joint. The top of the
piston forms the frustum of the cone and the pistons are 110 mm. in
length. The lower portion of the skirt is machined inside and has a wall
thickness of 1 mm. Riveted to the piston head is a conical diaphragm
which contacts with the piston pin when in place and serves to carry the
heat off the center of the piston.

