
AUSTRO-DAIMLER ENGINE

One of the first very successful European flying engines which was
developed in Europe is the Austro-Daimler, which is shown in end section
in a preceding chapter. The first of these motors had four-cylinders,
120 by 140 millimeters, bore and stroke, with cast iron cylinders,
overhead valves operated by means of a single rocker arm, controlled by
two cams and the valves were closed by a single leaf spring which
oscillates with the rocker arm. The cylinders are cast singly and have
either copper or steel jackets applied to them. The four-cylinder design
was afterwards expanded to the six-cylinder design and still later a
six-cylinder motor of 130 by 175 millimeters was developed. This motor
uses an offset crank-shaft, as does the Benz motor, and the effect of
offset has been discussed earlier on in this treatise. The Benz motor
also uses an offset cam-shaft which improves the valve operation and
changes the valve lift diagram. The lubrication also is different than
any other aviation motor, since individual high pressure metering pumps
are used to deliver fresh oil only to the bearings and cylinders, as was
the custom in automobile practice some ten years ago.


SUNBEAM AVIATION ENGINES

These very successful engines have been developed by Louis Coatalen. At
the opening of the war the largest sized Coatalen motor was 225
horse-power and was of the L-head type having a single cam-shaft for
operating valves and was an evolution from the twelve-cylinder racing
car which the Sunbeam Company had previously built. Since 1914 the
Sunbeam Company have produced engines of six-, eight-, twelve- and
eighteen-cylinders from 150 to 500 horse-power with both iron and
aluminum cylinders. For the last two years all the motors have had
overhead cam-shafts with a separate shaft for operating the intake and
exhaust valves. Cam-shafts are connected through to the crank-shaft by
means of a train of spur gears, all of which are mounted on two double
row ball bearings. In the twin six, 350 horse-power engine, operating at
2100 R. P. M., requires about 4 horse-power to operate the cam-shafts.
This motor gives 362 horse-power at 2100 revolutions and has a fuel
consumption of 51/100 of a pint per brake horse-power hour. The
cylinders are 110 by 160 millimeters. The same design has been expanded
into an eighteen-cylinder which gives 525 horse-power at 2100 turns.
There has also been developed a very successful eight-cylinder motor
rated at 2220 horse-power which has a bore and stroke of 120 by 130
millimeters, weight 450 pounds. This motor is an aluminum block
construction with steel sleeves inserted. Three valves are operated, one
for the inlet and two for the exhaust. One cam-shaft operates the three
valves.

