[Illustration: Fig. 247.--At Top, the Sunbeam Overhead Valve 170
Horse-Power Six-Cylinder Engine. Below, Side View of Sunbeam 350
Horse-Power Twelve-Cylinder Vee Engine.]

The modern Sunbeam engines operate with a mean effective pressure of 135
pounds with a compression ratio of 6 to 1 sea level. The connecting rods
are of the articulated type as in the Renault motor and are very short.
The weight of these motors turns out at 2.6 pounds per brake
horse-power, and they are able to go through a 100 hour test without any
trouble of any kind. The lubricating system comprises a dry base and oil
pump for drawing the oil off from the base, whence it is delivered to
the filter and cooling system. It then is pumped by a separate high
pressure gear pump through the entire motor. In these larger European
motors, castor-oil is used largely for lubrication. It is said that
without the use of castor-oil it is impossible to hold full power for
five hours. Coatalen favors aluminum cylinders rather than cast iron.
The series of views in Figs. 247 to 250 inclusive, illustrates the
vertical, narrow type of engine; the V-form; and the broad arrow type
wherein three rows, each of six-cylinders, are set on a common
crank-case. In this water-cooled series the gasoline and oil consumption
are notably low, as is the weight per horse-power.

[Illustration: Fig. 248.--Side View of Eighteen-Cylinder Sunbeam
Coatalen Aircraft Engine Rated at 475 B.H.P.]

[Illustration: Fig. 249.--Sunbeam Eighteen-Cylinder Motor, Viewed from
Pump and Magneto End.]

In the eighteen-cylinder overhead valve Sunbeam-Coatalen aircraft engine
of 475 brake horse-power, there are no fewer than half a dozen magnetos.
Each magneto is inclosed. Two sparks are furnished to each cylinder
from independent magnetos. On this engine there are also no fewer than
six carburetors. Shortness of crank-shaft, and therefore of engine
length, and absence of vibration are achieved by the linking of the
connecting-rods. Those concerned with three-cylinders in the broad arrow
formation work on one crank-pin, the outer rods being linked to the
central master one. In consequence of this arrangement, the piston
travel in the case of the central row of cylinders is 160 mm., while the
stroke of the pistons of the cylinders set on either side is in each
case 168 mm. Inasmuch as each set of six-cylinders is completely
balanced in itself, this difference in stroke does not affect the
balance of the engine as a whole. The duplicate ignition scheme also
applies to the twelve-cylinder 350 brake horse-power Sunbeam-Coatalen
overhead valve aircraft engine type. It is distinguishable,
incidentally, by the passage formed through the center of each induction
pipe for the sparking plug in the center cylinder of each block of
three. In this, as in the eighteen-cylinder and the six-cylinder types,
there are two cam-shafts for each set of cylinders. These cam-shafts are
lubricated by low pressure and are operated through a train of inclosed
spur wheels at the magneto end of the machine. The six-cylinder, 170
brake horse-power vertical type employs the same general principles,
including the detail that each carburetor serves gas to a group of
three-cylinders only. It will be observed that this engine presents
notably little head resistance, being suitable for multi-engined
aircraft.

