[Illustration: Fig. 250.--Propeller End of Sunbeam Eighteen-Cylinder 475
B.H.P. Aviation Engine.]


INDICATING METERS FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS

[Illustration: Fig. 251.--View of Airplane Cowl Board, Showing the
Various Navigating and Indicating Instruments to Aid the Aviator in
Flight.]

The proper functioning of the power plant and the various groups
comprising it may be readily ascertained at any time by the pilot
because various indicating meters and pressure gauges are provided which
are located on a dash or cowl board in front of the aviator, as shown at
Fig. 251. The speed indicator corresponds to the speedometer of an
automobile and gives an indication of the speed the airplane is making,
which taken in conjunction with the clock will make it possible to
determine the distance covered at a flight. The altimeter, which is an
aneroid barometer, outlines with fair accuracy the height above the
ground at which a plane is flying. These instruments are furnished to
enable the aviator to navigate the airplane when in the air, and if the
machine is to be used for cross-country flying, they may be supplemented
by a compass and a drift set. It will be evident that these are purely
navigating instruments and only indicate the motor condition in an
indirect manner. The best way of keeping track of the motor action is to
watch the tachometer or revolution counter which is driven from the
engine by a flexible shaft. This indicates directly the number of
revolutions the engine is making per minute and, of course, any slowing
up of the engine in normal flights indicates that something is not
functioning as it should. The tachometer operates on the same principle
as the speed indicating device or speedometer used in automobiles except
that the dial is calibrated to show revolutions per minute instead of
miles per hour. At the extreme right of the dash at Fig. 251 the spark
advance and throttle control levers are placed. These, of course,
regulate the motor speed just as they do in an automobile. Next to the
engine speed regulating levers is placed a push button cut-out switch to
cut out the ignition and stop the motor. Three pressure gauges are
placed in a line. The one at the extreme right indicates the pressure of
air on the fuel when a pressure feed system is used. The middle one
shows oil pressure, while that nearest the center of the dash board is
employed to show the air pressure available in the air starting system.
It will be evident that the character of the indicating instruments will
vary with the design of the airplane. If it was provided with an
electrical starter instead of an air system electrical indicating
instruments would have to be provided.

