
COMPRESSED AIR-STARTING SYSTEMS

Two forms of air-starting systems are in general use, one in which the
crank-shaft is turned by means of an air motor, the other class where
compressed air is admitted to the cylinders proper and the motor turned
over because of the air pressure acting on the engine pistons. A system
known as the "Never-Miss" utilizes a small double-cylinder air pump is
driven from the engine by means of suitable gearing and supplies air to
a substantial container located at some convenient point in the
fuselage. The air is piped from the container to a dash-control valve
and from this member to a peculiar form of air motor mounted near the
crank-shaft. The air motor consists of a piston to which a rack is
fastened which engages a gear mounted on the crank shaft provided with
some form of ratchet clutch to permit it to revolve only in one
direction, and then only when the gear is turning faster than the engine
crank-shaft.

The method of operation is extremely simple, the dash-control valve
admitting air from the supply tank to the top of the pump cylinder. When
in the position shown in cut the air pressure will force the piston and
rack down and set the engine in motion. A variety of air motors are used
and in some the pump and motor may be the same device, means being
provided to change the pump to an air motor when the engine is to be
turned over.

The "Christensen" air starting system is shown at Figs. 252 and 253. An
air pump is driven by the engine, and this supplies air to an air
reservoir or container attached to the fuselage. This container
communicates with the top of an air distributor when a suitable control
valve is open. An air pressure gauge is provided to enable one to
ascertain the air pressure available. The top of each cylinder is
provided with a check valve, through which air can flow only in one
direction, i.e., from the tank to the interior of the cylinder. Under
explosive pressure these check valves close. The function of the
distributor is practically the same as that of an ignition timer, its
purpose being to distribute the air to the cylinders of the engine only
in the proper firing order. All the while that the engine is running and
the car is in motion the air pump is functioning, unless thrown out of
action by an easily manipulated automatic control. When it is desired to
start the engine a starting valve is opened which permits the air to
flow to the top of the distributor, and then through a pipe to the check
valve on top of the cylinder about to explode. As the air is going
through under considerable pressure it will move the piston down just as
the explosion would, and start the engine rotating. The inside of the
distributor rotates and directs a charge of air to the cylinder next to
fire. In this way the engine is given a number of revolutions, and
finally a charge of gas will be ignited and the engine start off on its
cycle of operation. To make starting positive and easier some gasoline
is injected in with the air so an inflammable mixture is present in the
cylinders instead of air only. This ignites easily and the engine starts
off sooner than would otherwise be the case. The air pressure required
varies from 125 to 250 pounds per square inch, depending upon the size
and type of the engine to be set in motion.

