[Illustration: Fig. 252.--Parts of Christensen Air Starting System Shown
at A, and Application of Piping and Check Valves to Cylinders of
Thomas-Morse Aeromotor Outlined at B.]

[Illustration: Fig. 253.--Diagrams Showing Installation of Air Starting
System on Thomas-Morse Aviation Motor.]


ELECTRIC STARTING SYSTEMS

Starters utilizing electric motors to turn over the engine have been
recently developed, and when properly made and maintained in an
efficient condition they answer all the requirements of an ideal
starting device. The capacity is very high, as the motor may draw
current from a storage battery and keep the engine turning over for
considerable time on a charge. The objection against their use is that
it requires considerable complicated and costly apparatus which is
difficult to understand and which requires the services of an expert
electrician to repair should it get out of order, though if battery
ignition is used the generator takes the place of the usual ignition
magneto.

In the Delco system the electric current is generated by a combined
motor-generator permanently geared to the engine. When the motor is
running it turns the armature and the motor generator is acting as a
dynamo, only supplying current to a storage battery. On account of the
varying speeds of the generator, which are due to the fluctuation in
engine speed, some form of automatic switch which will disconnect the
generator from the battery at such times that the motor speed is not
sufficiently high to generate a current stronger than that delivered by
the battery is needed. These automatic switches are the only delicate
part of the entire apparatus, and while they require very delicate
adjustment they seem to perform very satisfactorily in practice.

When it is desired to start the engine an electrical connection is
established between the storage battery and the motor-generator unit,
and this acts as a motor and turns the engine over by suitable gearing
which engages the gear teeth cut into a special gear or disc attached to
the engine crank-shaft. When the motor-generator furnishes current for
ignition as well as for starting the motor, the fact that the current
can be used for this work as well as starting justifies to a certain
extent the rather complicated mechanism which forms a complete starting
and ignition system, and which may also be used for lighting if
necessary in night flying.

