An electric generator and motor do not complete a self-starting system,
because some reservoir or container for electric current must be
provided. The current from the generator is usually stored in a storage
battery from which it can be made to return to the motor or to the same
armature that produced it. The fundamental units of a self-starting
system, therefore, are a generator to produce the electricity, a storage
battery to serve as a reservoir, and an electric motor to rotate the
motor crank-shaft. Generators are usually driven by enclosed gearing,
though silent chains are used where the center distance between the
motor shaft and generator shaft is too great for the gears. An electric
starter may be directly connected to the gasoline engine, as is the case
where the combined motor-generator replaces the fly-wheel in an
automobile engine. The motor may also drive the engine by means of a
silent chain or by direct gear reduction.

Every electric starter must use a switch of some kind for starting
purposes and most systems include an output regulator and a reverse
current cut-out. The output regulator is a simple device that regulates
the strength of the generator current that is supplied the storage
battery. A reverse current cut-out is a form of check valve that
prevents the storage battery from discharging through the generator.
Brief mention is made of electric starting because such systems will
undoubtedly be incorporated in some future airplane designs. Battery
ignition is already being experimented with.


BATTERY IGNITION SYSTEM PARTS

A battery ignition system in its simplest form consists of a current
producer, usually a set of dry cells or a storage battery, an induction
coil to transform the low tension current to one having sufficient
strength to jump the air gap at the spark-plug, an igniter member
placed in the combustion chamber and a timer or mechanical switch
operated by the engine so that the circuit will be closed only when it
is desired to have a spark take place in the cylinders. Battery ignition
systems may be of two forms, those in which the battery current is
stepped up or intensified to enable it to jump an air gap between the
points of the spark plug, these being called "high tension" systems and
the low tension form (never used on airplane motors) in which the
battery current is not intensified to a great degree and a spark
produced in the cylinder by the action of a mechanical circuit breaker
in the combustion chamber. The low tension system is the simplest
electrically but the more complex mechanically. The high tension system
has the fewest moving parts but numerous electrical devices. At the
present time all airplane engines use high tension ignition systems, the
magneto being the most popular at the present time. The current
distribution and timing devices used with modern battery systems are
practically the same as similar parts of a magneto.

