
Any of these books promptly sent prepaid to any address in the world on
receipt of price.

=HOW TO REMIT=--By Postal Money Order, Express Money Order, Bank Draft
or Registered Letter.


~AUTOMOBILES AND MOTORCYCLES~


=The Modern Gasoline Automobile--Its Design, Construction, and
Operation, 1918 Edition.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This is the most complete, practical and up-to-date treatise on
gasoline automobiles and their component parts ever published.
In the new _revised_ and _enlarged_ 1918 _edition_, all phases
of automobile construction, operation and maintenance are fully
and completely described, and in language anyone can understand.
Every part of all types of automobiles, from light cycle-cars to
heavy motor trucks and tractors, are described in a thorough
manner, not only the automobile, but every item of it;
equipment, accessories, tools needed, supplies and spare parts
necessary for its upkeep, are fully discussed.

_It is clearly and concisely written by an expert familiar with
every branch of the automobile industry and the originator of
the practical system of self-education on technical subjects. It
is a liberal education in the automobile art, useful to all who
motor for either business or pleasure._

Anyone reading the incomparable treatise is in touch with all
improvements that have been made in motor-car construction. All
latest developments, such as high speed aluminum motors and
multiple valve and sleeve-valve engines, are considered in
detail. The latest ignition, carburetor and lubrication practice
is outlined. New forms of change speed gears, and final power
transmission systems, and all latest chassis improvements are
shown and described. This book is used in all leading automobile
schools and is conceded to be the STANDARD TREATISE. The chapter
on Starting and Lighting Systems has been greatly enlarged, and
many automobile engineering features that have long puzzled
laymen are explained so clearly that the underlying principles
can be understood by anyone. This book was first published six
years ago and so much new matter has been added that it is
nearly twice, its original size. The only treatise covering
various forms of war automobiles and recent developments in
motor-truck design as well as pleasure cars. _This book is not
too technical for the layman nor too elementary for the more
expert. It is an incomparable work of reference, for home or
school_. 1,000 6x9 pages, nearly 1,000 illustrations, 12 folding
plates. Cloth bound. Price =$3.00=

