WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"It is the best book on the Automobile seen up to date."--J. H.
Pile, Associate Editor _Automobile Trade Journal_.

"Every Automobile Owner has use for a book of this
character."--_The Tradesman_.

"This book is superior to any treatise heretofore published on
the subject."--_The Inventive Age_.

"We know of no other volume that is so complete in all its
departments, and in which the wide field of automobile
construction with its mechanical intricacies is so plainly
handled, both in the text and in the matter of
illustrations."--_The Motorist_.

"The book is very thorough, a careful examination failing to
disclose any point in connection with the automobile, its care
and repair, to have been overlooked."--_Iron Age_.

"Mr. Pagé has done a great work, and benefit to the Automobile
Field."--W. C. Hasford, Mgr. Y. M. C. A. Automobile School,
Boston, Mass.

"It is just the kind of a book a motorist needs if he wants to
understand his car."--_American Thresherman_.


=The Model T Ford Car, Its Construction, Operation and Repair.= By
VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This is a complete instruction book. All parts of the Ford Model
T Car are described and illustrated; the construction is fully
described and operating principles made clear to everyone. Every
Ford owner needs this practical book. You don't have to guess
about the construction or where the trouble is, as it shows how
to take all parts apart and how to locate and fix all faults.
The writer, Mr. Pagé, has operated a Ford car for many years and
writes from actual knowledge. Among the contents are: 1. The
Ford Car: Its Parts and Their Functions. 2. The Engine and
Auxiliary Groups. How the Engine Works--The Fuel Supply
System--The Carburetor--Making the Ignition Spark--Cooling and
Lubrication. 3. Details of Chassis. Change Speed Gear--Power
Transmission--Differential Gear Action--Steering Gear--Front
Axle--Frame and Springs--Brakes. 4. How to Drive and Care for
the Ford. The Control System Explained--Starting the
Motor--Driving the Car--Locating Roadside Troubles--Tire
Repairs--Oiling the Chassis--Winter Care of Car. 5. Systematic
Location of Troubles and Remedies. Faults in Engine--Faults in
Carburetor--Ignition Troubles--Cooling and Lubrication System
Defects--Adjustment of Transmission Gear--General Chassis
Repairs. 95 illustrations, 300 pages, 2 large folding plates.
Price =$1.00=

