WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"If you own a car--get this book."--_The Glassworker_.

"Mr. Page has the faculty of making difficult subjects plain and
understandable."--_Bristol Press_.

"We can name no writer better qualified to prepare a book of
instruction on automobiles than Mr. Victor W.
Pagé."--_Scientific American_.

"The best automobile catechism that has appeared."--_Automobile
Topics_.

"There are few men, even with long experience, who will not find
this book useful. Great pains have been taken to make it
accurate. Special recommendation must be given to the
illustrations, which have been made specially for the work. Such
excellent books as this greatly assist in fully understanding
your automobile."--_Engineering News_.


=The Automobilist's Pocket Companion and Expense Record.= Arranged by
VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This book is not only valuable as a convenient cost record but
contains much information of value to motorists. Includes a
condensed digest of auto laws of all States, a lubrication
schedule, hints for care of storage battery and care of tires,
location of road troubles, anti-freezing solutions, horse-power
table, driving hints and many useful tables and recipes of
interest to all motorists. Not a technical book in any sense of
the word, just a collection of practical facts in simple
language for the everyday motorist. Price =$1.00=


=Modern Starting, Lighting and Ignition Systems.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ,
M.E.

This practical volume has been written with special reference to
the requirements of the non-technical reader desiring easily
understood, explanatory matter, relating to all types of
automobile ignition, starting and lighting systems. It can be
understood by anyone, even without electrical knowledge, because
elementary electrical principles are considered before any
attempt is made to discuss features of the various systems.
These basic principles are clearly stated and illustrated with
simple diagrams. _All the leading systems of starting, lighting
and ignition have been described and illustrated with the
co-operation of the experts employed by the manufacturers._
Wiring diagrams are shown in both technical and non-technical
forms. All symbols are fully explained. It is a comprehensive
review of modern starting and ignition system practice, and
includes a complete exposition of storage battery construction,
care and repair. All types of starting motors, generators,
magnetos, and all ignition or lighting system-units are fully
explained. _Every person in the automobile business needs this
volume._ Among some of the subjects treated are: I.--Elementary
Electricity; Current Production; Flow; Circuits; Measurements;
Definitions; Magnetism; Battery Action; Generator Action.
II.--Battery Ignition Systems. III.--Magneto Ignition Systems.
IV.--Elementary Exposition of Starting System Principles.
V.--Typical Starting and Lighting Systems; Practical
Application; Wiring Diagrams; Auto-lite, Bijur, Delco,
Dyneto-Entz, Gray and Davis, Remy, U. S. L., Westinghouse,
Bosch-Rushmore, Genemotor, North-East, etc. VI.--Locating and
Repairing Troubles in Starting and Lighting Systems.
VII.--Auxiliary. Electric Systems; Gear-shifting by Electricity;
Warning Signals; Electric Brake; Entz-Transmission, Wagner-Saxon
Circuits, Wagner-Studebaker Circuits. 5-1/4x7-1/2. Cloth. 530
pages, 297 illustrations, 3 folding plates. Price =$1.50=

