
=Automobile Welding With the Oxy-Acetylene Flame.= By M. KEITH DUNHAM.

This is the only complete book on the "why" and "how" of Welding
with the Oxy-Acetylene Flame, and from its pages one can gain
information so that he can weld anything that comes along.

No one can afford to be without this concise book, as it first
explains the apparatus to be used, and then covers in detail the
actual welding of all automobile parts. The welding of aluminum,
cast iron, steel, copper, brass and malleable iron is clearly
explained, as well as the proper way to burn the carbon out of
the combustion head of the motor. Among the contents are:
Chapter I.--Apparatus Knowledge. Chapter II.--Shop Equipment and
Initial Procedure. Chapter III.--Cast Iron. Chapter
IV.--Aluminum. Chapter V.--Steel. Chapter VI.--Malleable Iron,
Copper, Brass, Bronze. Chapter VII.--Carbon Burning and other
Uses of Oxygen and Acetylene. Chapter VIII.--How to Figure Cost
of Welding. 167 pages, fully illustrated. Price =$1.00=


=Storage Batteries Simplified.= By VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

A comprehensive treatise devoted entirely to secondary batteries
and their maintenance, repair and use.

This is the most up-to-date book on this subject. Describes
fully the Exide, Edison, Gould, Willard, U. S. L. and other
storage battery forms in the types best suited for automobile,
stationary and marine work. Nothing of importance has been
omitted that the reader should know about the practical
operation and care of storage batteries. No details have been
slighted. The instructions for charging and care have been made
as simple as possible. Brief Synopsis of Chapters: Chapter
I.--Storage Battery Development; Types of Storage Batteries;
Lead Plate Types; The Edison Cell. Chapter II.--Storage Battery
Construction; Plates and Girds; Planté Plates; Fauré Plates;
Non-Lead Plates; Commercial Battery Designs. Chapter
III.--Charging Methods; Rectifiers; Converters; Rheostats; Rules
for Charging. Chapter IV.--Battery Repairs and Maintenance.
Chapter V.--Industrial Application of Storage Batteries;
Glossary of Storage Battery Terms. 208 Pages. Very Fully
Illustrated. Price =$1.50 net=.

