
~AUTOMOBILE AND MOTORCYCLE CHARTS~


=Chart. Location of Gasoline Engine Troubles Made Easy--A Chart Showing
Sectional View of Gasoline Engine.= Compiled by VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

It shows clearly all parts of a typical four-cylinder gasoline
engine of the four-cycle type.

It outlines distinctly all parts liable to give trouble and also
details the derangements apt to interfere with smooth engine
operation.

Valuable to students, motorists, mechanics, repairmen,
garagemen, automobile salesmen, chauffeurs, motorboat owners,
motor-truck and tractor drivers, aviators, motor-cyclists, and
all others who have to do with gasoline power plants.

It simplifies location of all engine troubles, and while it will
prove invaluable to the novice, it can be used to advantage by
the more expert. It should be on the walls of every public and
private garage, automobile repair shop, club house or school. It
can be carried in the automobile or pocket with ease, and will
insure against loss of time when engine trouble manifests
itself.

This sectional view of engine is a complete review of all motor
troubles. It is prepared by a practical motorist for all who
motor. More information for the money than ever before offered.
No details omitted. Size 25x38 inches. Securely mailed on
receipt of =25 Cents=


=Chart. Location of Ford Engine Troubles Made Easy.= Compiled by VICTOR
W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This shows clear sectional views depicting all portions of the
Ford power plant and auxiliary groups. It outlines clearly all
parts of the engine, fuel supply system, ignition group and
cooling system, that are apt to give trouble, detailing all
derangements that are liable to make an engine lose power, start
hard or work irregularly. This chart is valuable to students,
owners, and drivers, as it simplifies location of all engine
faults. Of great advantage as an instructor for the novice, it
can be used equally well by the more expert as a work of
reference and review. It can be carried in the tool-box or
pocket with ease and will save its cost in labor eliminated the
first time engine trouble manifests itself. Prepared with
special reference to the average man's needs and is a practical
review of all motor troubles because it is based on the actual
experience of an automobile engineer-mechanic with the mechanism
the chart describes. It enables the non-technical owner or
operator of a Ford car to locate engine derangements by
systematic search, guided by easily recognized symptoms instead
of by guesswork. It makes the average owner independent of the
roadside repair shop when touring. Must be seen to be
appreciated. Size 25x38 inches. Printed on heavy bond paper.
Price =25 cents=

