
~AVIATION~


=Aviation Engines, their Design, Construction, Operation and Repair.= By
Lieut. VICTOR W. PAGÉ, Aviation Section, S.C.U.S.R.

A practical work containing valuable instructions for aviation
students, mechanicians, squadron engineering officers and all
interested in the construction and upkeep of airplane power
plants.

The rapidly increasing interest in the study of aviation, and
especially of the highly developed internal combustion engines
that make mechanical flight possible, has created a demand for a
text-book suitable for schools and home study that will clearly
and concisely explain the workings of the various aircraft
engines of foreign and domestic manufacture.

This treatise, written by a recognized authority on all of the
practical aspects of internal combustion engine construction,
maintenance and repair fills the need as no other book does.

The matter is logically arranged; all descriptive matter is
simply expressed and copiously illustrated so that anyone can
understand airplane engine operation and repair even if without
previous mechanical training. This work is invaluable for anyone
desiring to become an aviator or aviation mechanician.

The latest rotary types, such as the Gnome, Monosoupape, and Le
Rhone, are fully explained, as well as the recently developed
Vee and radial types. The subjects of carburetion, ignition,
cooling and lubrication also are covered in a thorough manner.
The chapters on repair and maintenance are distinctive and found
in no other book on this subject.

Invaluable to the student, mechanic and soldier wishing to enter
the aviation service.

Not a technical book, but a practical, easily understood work of
reference for all interested in aeronautical science. 576 octavo
pages. 253 specially made engravings. Price =$3.00 net=


~GLOSSARY OF AVIATION TERMS~


=Termes D'Aviation, English-French, French-English.= Compiled by Lieuts.
VICTOR W. PAGÉ, A.S., S.C.U.S.R., and PAUL MONTARIOL of the French
Flying Corps, on duty on Signal Corps Aviation School, Mineola, L. I.

