Valuable to students, motorists, mechanics, repairmen,
garagemen, automobile salesmen, chauffeurs, motor-boat owners,
motor-truck and tractor drivers, aviators, motor-cyclists, and
all others who have to do with gasoline power plants.

It simplifies location of all engine troubles, and while it will
prove invaluable to the novice, it can be used to advantage by
the more expert. It should be on the walls of every public and
private garage, automobile repair shop, club house or school. It
can be carried in the automobile or pocket with ease and will
insure against loss of time when engine trouble manifests
itself.

This sectional view of engine is a complete review of all motor
troubles. It is prepared by a practical motorist for all who
motor. No details omitted. Size 25x38 inches. Price =25 cents=


=Lubrication of the Motor Car Chassis.=

This chart presents the plan view of a typical six-cylinder
chassis of standard design and all parts are clearly indicated
that demand oil, also the frequency with which they must be
lubricated and the kind of oil to use. A practical chart for all
interested in motor-car maintenance. Size 24x38 inches. Price
=25 cents=


=Location of Carburetion Troubles Made Easy.=

This chart shows all parts of a typical pressure feed fuel
supply system and gives causes of trouble, how to locate defects
and means of remedying them. Size 24x38 inches. Price =25 cents=


=Location of Ignition System Troubles Made Easy.=

In this chart all parts of a typical double ignition system
using battery and magneto current are shown and suggestions are
given for readily finding ignition troubles and eliminating them
when found. Size 24x38 inches. Price =25 cents=


=Location of Cooling and Lubrication System Faults.=

This composite chart shows a typical automobile power plant
using pump circulated water-cooling system and the most popular
lubrication method. Gives suggestions for curing all overheating
and loss of power faults due to faulty action of the oiling or
cooling group. Size 24x38 inches. Price =25 Cents=

