
=Motorcycle Troubles Made Easy--A Chart Showing Sectional View of
Single-Cylinder Gasoline Engine.= Compiled by VICTOR W. PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This chart simplifies location of all power-plant troubles, and
will prove invaluable to all who have to do with the operation,
repair or sale of motorcycles. No details omitted. Size 25x38
inches. Price =25 cents=


=Location of Ford Engine Troubles Made Easy.= Compiled by VICTOR W.
PAGÉ, M.S.A.E.

This shows clear sectional views depicting all portions of the
Ford power plant and auxiliary groups. It outlines clearly all
parts of the engine, fuel supply system, ignition group and
cooling system, that are apt to give trouble, detailing all
derangements that are liable to make an engine lose power, start
hard or work irregularly. This chart is valuable to students,
owners, and drivers, as it simplifies location of all engine
faults. Of great advantage as an instructor for the novice, it
can be used equally well by the more expert as a work of
reference and review. It can be carried in the toolbox or pocket
with ease and will save its cost in labor eliminated the first
time engine trouble manifests itself. Prepared with special
reference to the average man's needs and is a practical review
of all motor troubles because it is based on the actual
experience of an automobile engineer-mechanic with the mechanism
the chart describes. It enables the non-technical owner or
operator of a Ford car to locate engine derangements by
systematic search, guided by easily recognized symptoms instead
of by guesswork. It makes the average owner independent of the
roadside repair shop when touring. Must be seen to be
appreciated. Size 25x38 inches. Printed on heavy bond paper.
Price =25 cents=

=Modern Submarine Chart--with Two Hundred Parts Numbered and Named.=

A cross-section view, showing clearly and distinctly all the
interior of a Submarine of the latest type. You get more
information from this chart, about the construction and
operation of a Submarine, than in any other way. No details
omitted--everything is accurate and to scale. It is absolutely
correct in every detail, having been approved by Naval
Engineers. All the machinery and devices fitted in a modern
Submarine Boat are shown, and to make the engraving more readily
understood all the features are shown in operative form, with
Officers and Men in the act of performing the duties assigned to
them in service conditions. This CHART IS REALLY AN ENCYCLOPEDIA
OF A SUBMARINE. It is educational and worth many times its cost.
Mailed in a Tube for =25 Cents=

