By J. E. CHRISTOPHER and T. H. BYROM.

This, the standard work on the subject, has just been revised.
It is a practical work for those engaged in Coke manufacture and
the recovery of By-products. Fully illustrated with folding
plates. It has been the aim of the authors, in preparing this
book, to produce one which shall be of use and benefit to those
who are associated with, or interested in, the modern
developments of the industry. Among the Chapters contained in
Volume I are: Introduction; Classification of Fuels; Impurities
of Coals; Coal Washing; Sampling and Valuation of Coals, etc.;
Power of Fuels; History of Coke Manufacture; Developments in the
Coke Oven Design; Recent Types of Coke Ovens; Mechanical
Appliances at Coke Ovens; Chemical and Physical Examination of
Coke. Volume II covers fully the subject of By-Products. Price,
per volume =$3.00 net=


~COMPRESSED AIR~


=Compressed Air in All Its Applications.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX.

This is the most complete book on the subject of Air that has
ever been issued, and its thirty-five chapters include about
every phase of the subject one can think of. It may be called an
encyclopedia of compressed air. It is written by an expert, who,
in its 665 pages, has dealt with the subject in a comprehensive
manner, no phase of it being omitted. Includes the physical
properties of air from a vacuum to its highest pressure, its
thermodynamics, compression, transmission and uses as a motive
power, in the Operation of Stationary and Portable Machinery, in
Mining, Air Tools, Air Lifts, Pumping of Water, Acids, and Oils;
the Air Blast for Cleaning and Painting the Sand Blast and its
Work, and the Numerous Appliances in which Compressed Air is a
Most Convenient and Economical Transmitter of Power for
Mechanical Work, Railway Propulsion, Refrigeration, and the
Various Uses to which Compressed Air has been applied. Includes
forty-four tables of the physical properties of air, its
compression, expansion, and volumes required for various kinds
of work, and a list of patents on compressed air from 1875 to
date. Over 500 illustrations, 5th Edition, revised and enlarged.

