
=Concrete from Sand Molds.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

A Practical Work treating on a process which has heretofore been
held as a trade secret by the few who possessed it, and which
will successfully mold every and any class of ornamental
concrete work. The process of molding concrete with sand molds
is of the utmost practical value, possessing the manifold
advantages of a low cost of molds, the ease and rapidity of
operation, perfect details to all ornamental designs, density
and increased strength of the concrete, perfect curing of the
work without attention and the easy removal of the molds
regardless of any undercutting the design may have. 192 pages.
Fully illustrated Price =$2.00=


=Ornamental Concrete without Molds.= By A. A. HOUGHTON.

The process for making ornamental concrete without molds has
long been held as a secret, and now, for the first time, this
process is given to the public. The book reveals the secret and
is the only book published which explains a simple, practical
method whereby the concrete worker is enabled, by employing wood
and metal templates of different designs, to mold or model in
concrete any Cornice, Archivolt, Column, Pedestal, Base Cap, Urn
or Pier in a monolithic form--right upon the job. These may be
molded in units or blocks and then built up to suit the
specifications demanded. This work is fully illustrated, with
detailed engravings. Price =$2.00=


=Concrete for the Farm and in the Shop.= By H. COLIN CAMPBELL, C.E.,
E.M.

"Concrete for the Farm and in the Shop" is a new book from cover
to cover, illustrating and describing in plain, simple language
many of the numerous applications of concrete within the range
of the home worker. Among the subjects treated are: Principles
of Reinforcing; Methods of Protecting Concrete so as to Insure
Proper Hardening; Home-made Mixers; Mixing by Hand and Machine;
Form Construction, Described and Illustrated by Drawings and
Photographs; Construction of Concrete Walls and Fences; Concrete
Fence Posts; Concrete Gate Posts; Corner Posts; Clothes Line
Posts; Grape Arbor Posts; Tanks; Troughs; Cisterns; Hog Wallows;
Feeding Floors and Barnyard Pavements; Foundations; Well Curbs
and Platforms; Indoor Floors; Sidewalks; Steps; Concrete Hotbeds
and Cold Frames; Concrete Slab Roofs; Walls for Buildings;
Repairing Leaks in Tanks and Cisterns; and all topics associated
with these subjects as bearing upon securing the best results
from concrete are dwelt upon at sufficient length in plain
every-day English so that the inexperienced person desiring to
undertake a piece of concrete construction can, by following the
directions set forth in this book, secure 100 per cent. success
every time. A number of convenient and practical tables for
estimating quantities, and some practical examples, are also
given. (5x7.) 149 pages. 51 illustrations. Price =75 cents=

