
=Popular Handbook for Cement and Concrete Users.= By MYRON H. LEWIS.

This is a concise treatise of the principles and methods
employed in the manufacture and use of cement in all classes of
modern works. The author has brought together in this work all
the salient matter of interest to the user of concrete and its
many diversified products. The matter is presented in logical
and systematic order, clearly written, fully illustrated and
free from involved mathematics. Everything of value to the
concrete user is given, including kinds of cement employed in
construction, concrete architecture, inspection and testing,
waterproofing, coloring and painting, rules, tables, working and
cost data. The book comprises thirty-three chapters, as follow:
Introductory. Kinds of Cement and How They are Made. Properties.
Testing and Requirements of Hydraulic Cement. Concrete and Its
Properties. Sand, Broken Stone and Gravel for Concrete. How to
Proportion the Materials. How to Mix and Place Concrete. Forms
of Concrete Construction. The Architectural and Artistic
Possibilities of Concrete. Concrete Residences. Mortars,
Plasters and Stucco, and How to Use Them. The Artistic Treatment
of Concrete Surfaces. Concrete Building Blocks. The Making of
Ornamental Concrete. Concrete Pipes, Fences, Posts, etc.
Essential Features and Advantages of Reenforced Concrete. How to
Design Reenforced Concrete Beams, Slabs and Columns.
Explanations of the Methods and Principles in Designing
Reenforced Concrete, Beams and Slabs. Systems of Reenforcement
Employed. Reenforced Concrete in Factory and General Building
Construction. Concrete in Foundation Work. Concrete Retaining
Walls, Abutments and Bulkheads. Concrete Arches and Arch
Bridges. Concrete Beam and Girder Bridges. Concrete in Sewerage
and Draining Works. Concrete Tanks, Dams and Reservoirs.
Concrete Sidewalks, Curbs and Pavements. Concrete in Railroad
Construction. The Utility of Concrete on the Farm. The
Waterproofing of Concrete Structures. Grout of Liquid Concrete
and Its Use. Inspection of Concrete Work. Cost of Concrete Work.
Some of the special features of the book are: 1.--The Attention
Paid to the Artistic and Architectural Side of Concrete Work.
2.--The Authoritative Treatment of the Problem of Waterproofing
Concrete. 3.--An Excellent Summary of the Rules to be Followed
in Concrete Construction. 4.--The Valuable Cost Data and Useful
Tables given. A valuable Addition to the Library of Every Cement
and Concrete User. Price =$2.50=

