WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"The field of Concrete Construction is well covered and the
matter contained is well within the understanding of any
person."--_Engineering-Contracting._

"Should be on the bookshelves of every contractor, engineer, and
architect in the land."--_National Builder._


=Waterproofing Concrete.= By MYRON H. LEWIS.

Modern Methods of Waterproofing Concrete and Other Structures. A
condensed statement of the Principles, Rules, and Precautions to
be Observed in Waterproofing and Dampproofing Structures and
Structural Materials. Paper binding. Illustrated. Price =50
cents=


~DICTIONARIES~


=Aviation Terms, Termes D'Aviation, English-French, French-English.=
Compiled by Lieuts. VICTOR W. PAGÉ, A.S., S.C.U.S.R., and PAUL
MONTARIOL, of the French Flying Corps, on duty on Signal Corps Aviation
School, Mineola, L. I.

The lists contained are confined to essentials, and special
folding plates are included to show all important airplane
parts. The lists are divided in four sections as follows:
1.--Flying Field Terms. 2.--The Airplane. 3.--The Engine.
4.--Tools and Shop Terms.

A complete, well illustrated volume intended to facilitate
conversation between English-speaking and French aviators. A
very valuable book for all who are about to leave for duty
overseas.

Approved for publication by Major W. G. Kilner, S.C., U.S.C.O.
Signal Corps Aviation School, Hazelhurst Field, Mineola, L. I.
This book should be in every Aviator's and Mechanic's Kit for
ready reference. 128 pages, fully illustrated, with detailed
engravings. Price =$1.00=


=Standard Electrical Dictionary.= By T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

An indispensable work to all interested in electrical science.
Suitable alike for the student and professional. A practical
handbook of reference containing definitions of about 5,000
distinct words, terms and phrases. The definitions are terse and
concise; and include every term used in electrical science.
Recently issued. An entirely new edition. Should be in the
possession of all who desire to keep abreast with the progress
of this branch of science. Complete, concise and convenient. 682
pages, 393 illustrations. Price =$3.00=

