
~DIES--METAL WORK~


=Dies: Their Construction and Use for the Modern Working of Sheet
Metals.= By J. V. WOODWORTH.

A most useful book, and one which should be in the hands of all
engaged in the press working of metals; treating on the
Designing, Constructing, and Use of Tools, Fixtures and Devices,
together with the manner in which they should be used in the
Power Press, for the cheap and rapid production of the great
variety of sheet-metal articles now in use. It is designed as a
guide to the production of sheet-metal parts at the minimum of
cost with the maximum of output. The hardening and tempering of
Press tools and the classes of work which may be produced to the
best advantage by the use of dies in the power press are fully
treated. Its 515 illustrations show dies, press fixtures and
sheet-metal working devices, the descriptions of which are so
clear and practical that all metal-working mechanics will be
able to understand how to design, construct and use them. Many
of the dies and press fixtures treated were either constructed
by the author or under his supervision. Others were built by
skilful mechanics and are in use in large sheet-metal
establishments and machine shops. 6th Revised and Enlarged
Edition. Price =$3.00=


=Punches, Dies and Tools for Manufacturing in Presses.= By J. V.
WOODWORTH.

This work is a companion volume to the author's elementary work
entitled "Dies: Their Construction and Use." It does not go into
the details of die-making to the extent of the author's previous
book, but gives a comprehensive review of the field of
operations carried on by presses. A large part of the
information given has been drawn from the author's personal
experience. It might well be termed an Encyclopedia of
Die-Making, Punch-Making, Die-Sinking, Sheet-Metal Working, and
Making of Special Tools, Sub-presses, Devices and Mechanical
Combinations for Punching, Cutting, Bending, Forming, Piercing,
Drawing, Compressing and Assembling Sheet-Metal Parts, and also
Articles of other Materials in Machine Tools. 2d Edition. Price
=$4.00=

