
=Drop Forging, Die-Sinking and Machine-Forming of Steel.= By J. V.
WOODWORTH.

This is a practical treatise on Modern Shop Practice, Processes,
Methods, Machine Tools, and Details treating on the Hot and Cold
Machine-Forming of Steel and Iron into Finished Shapes: together
with Tools, Dies, and Machinery involved in the manufacture of
Duplicate Forgings and Interchangeable Hot and Cold Pressed
Parts from Bar and Sheet Metal. This book fills a demand of long
standing for information regarding drop-forgings, die-sinking
and machine-forming of steel and the shop practice involved, as
it actually exists in the modern drop-forging shop. The
processes of die-sinking and force-making, which are thoroughly
described and illustrated in this admirable work, are rarely to
be found explained in such a clear and concise manner as is here
set forth. The process of die-sinking relates to the engraving
or sinking of the female or lower dies, such as are used for
drop-forgings, hot and cold machine-forging, swedging, and the
press working of metals. The process of force-making relates to
the engraving or raising of the male or upper dies used in
producing the lower dies for the press-forming and
machine-forging of duplicate parts of metal.

In addition to the arts above mentioned the book contains
explicit information regarding the drop-forging and hardening
plants, designs, conditions, equipment, drop hammers, forging
machines, etc., machine forging, hydraulic forging, autogenous
welding and shop practice. The book contains eleven chapters,
and the information contained in these chapters is just what
will prove most valuable to the forged-metal worker. All
operations described in the work are thoroughly illustrated by
means of perspective half-tones and outline sketches of the
machinery employed. 300 detailed illustrations. Price =$2.50=


~DRAWING--SKETCHING PAPER~


=Practical Perspective.= By RICHARDS and COLVIN.

Shows just how to make all kinds of mechanical drawings in the
only practical perspective isometric. Makes everything plain, so
that any mechanic can understand a sketch or drawing in this
way. Saves time in the drawing room, and mistakes in the shops.
Contains practical examples of various classes of work. 4th
Edition. Price =50 cents=

