
=Linear Perspective Self-Taught.= By HERMAN T. C. KRAUS.

This work gives the theory and practice of linear perspective,
as used in architectural, engineering and mechanical drawings.
Persons taking up the study of the subject by themselves will be
able, by the use of the instruction given, to readily grasp the
subject, and by reasonable practice become good perspective
draftsmen. The arrangement of the book is good; the plate is on
the left-hand, while the descriptive text follows on the
opposite page, so as to be readily referred to. The drawings are
on sufficiently large scale to show the work clearly and are
plainly figured. There is included a self-explanatory chart
which gives all information necessary for the thorough
understanding of perspective. This chart alone is worth many
times over the price of the book. 2d Revised and Enlarged
Edition. Price =$2.50=


=Self-Taught Mechanical Drawing and Elementary Machine Design.= By F. L.
SYLVESTER, M.E., Draftsman, with additions by ERIK OBERG, associate
editor of "Machinery."

This is a practical treatise on Mechanical Drawing and Machine
Design, comprising the first principles of geometric and
mechanical drawing, workshop mathematics, mechanics, strength of
materials and the calculations and design of machine details.
The author's aim has been to adapt this treatise to the
requirements of the practical mechanic and young draftsman and
to present the matter in as clear and concise a manner as
possible. To meet the demands of this class of students,
practically all the important elements of machine design have
been dealt with, and in addition algebraic formulas have been
explained, and the elements of trigonometry treated in the
manner best suited to the needs of the practical man. The book
is divided into 20 chapters, and in arranging the material,
mechanical drawing, pure and simple, has been taken up first, as
a thorough understanding of the principles of representing
objects facilitates the further study of mechanical subjects.
This is followed by the mathematics necessary for the solution
of the problems in machine design which are presented later, and
a practical introduction to theoretical mechanics and the
strength of materials. The various elements entering into
machine design, such as cams, gears, sprocket-wheels, cone
pulleys, bolts, screws, couplings, clutches, shafting and
fly-wheels, have been treated in such a way as to make possible
the use of the work as a text-book for a continuous course of
study. It is easily comprehended and assimilated even by
students of limited previous training. 330 pages, 215
engravings. Price =$2.00=

