
=A New Sketching Paper.=

A new specially ruled paper to enable you to make sketches or
drawings in isometric perspective without any figuring or
fussing. It is being used for shop details as well as for
assembly drawings, as it makes one sketch do the work of three,
and no workman can help seeing just what is wanted.

Pads of 40 sheets, 6x9 inches.    Price     =25 cents=
Pads of 40 sheets, 9x12 inches.   Price     =50 cents=
40 sheets, 12x18 inches.          Price        =$1.00=


~ELECTRICITY~


=Arithmetic of Electricity.= By Prof. T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

A practical treatise on electrical calculations of all kinds
reduced to a series of rules, all of the simplest forms, and
involving only ordinary arithmetic; each rule illustrated by one
or more practical problems, with detailed solution of each one.
This book is classed among the most useful works published on
the science of electricity, covering as it does the mathematics
of electricity in a manner that will attract the attention of
those who are not familiar with algebraical formulas. 20th
Edition. 160 pages. Price =$1.00=


=Commutator Construction.= By WM. BAXTER, JR.

The business end of any dynamo or motor of the direct current
type is the commutator. This book goes into the designing,
building, and maintenance of commutators, shows how to locate
troubles and how to remedy them; everyone who fusses with
dynamos needs this. 4th Edition. Price =25 cents=


=Dynamo Building for Amateurs, or How to Construct a Fifty-Watt Dynamo.=
By ARTHUR J. WEED, Member of N. Y. Electrical Society.

A practical treatise showing in detail the construction of a
small dynamo or motor, the entire machine work of which can be
done on a small foot lathe. Dimensioned working drawings are
given for each piece of machine work, and each operation is
clearly described. This machine, when used as a dynamo, has an
output of fifty watts; when used as a motor it will drive a
small drill press or lathe. It can be used to drive a sewing
machine on any and all ordinary work. The book is illustrated
with more than sixty original engravings, showing the actual
construction of the different parts. Among the contents are
chapters on: 1. Fifty-Watt Dynamo. 2. Side Bearing Rods. 3.
Field Punching. 4. Bearings. 5. Commutator. 6. Pulley. 7. Brush
Holders. 8. Connection Board. 9. Armature Shaft. 10. Armature.
11. Armature Winding. 12. Field Winding. 13. Connecting and
starting.

