Paper.   Price     =50 Cents=
Cloth.   Price        =$1.00=


=Electric Bells.= By M. B. SLEEPER.

A complete treatise for the practical worker in Installing,
Operating and Testing Bell Circuits, Burglar Alarms,
Thermostats, and other apparatus used with Electric Bells.

Both the electrician and the experimenter will find in this book
new material which is essential in their work. Tools, bells,
batteries, unusual circuits, burglar alarms, annunciator
systems, thermostats, circuit breakers, time alarms, and other
apparatus used in bell circuits are described from the
standpoints of their application, construction and repair. The
detailed instruction for building the apparatus will appeal to
the experimenter particularly.

The practical worker will find the chapter on Wiring,
Calculation of Wire Sizes and Magnet Winding, Upkeep of Systems,
and the Location of Faults, of the greatest value in their work.
Among the chapters are: Tools and Materials for Bell Work; How
and Why Bell Work; Batteries for Small Installations; Making
Bells and Push Buttons; Wiring Bell Systems; Construction of
Annunciators and Signals; Burglary Alarms and Auxiliary
Apparatus; More Elaborate Bell Systems; Finding Faults and
Remedying Them. 124 pages, fully illustrated. Price =50 cents=


=Electric Lighting and Heating Pocket Book.= By SYDNEY F. WALKER.

This book puts in convenient form useful information regarding
the apparatus which is likely to be attached to the mains of an
electrical company. Tables of units and equivalents are included
and useful electrical laws and formulas are stated. 438 pages,
300 engravings. Bound in leather. Pocket book form. Price
=$3.00=


=Electric Wiring, Diagrams and Switchboards.= By NEWTON HARRISON, with
additions by THOMAS POPPE.

A thoroughly practical treatise covering the subject of Electric
Wiring in all its branches, deluding explanations and diagrams
which are thoroughly explicit and greatly simplify the subject.
Practical every-day problems in wiring are presented and the
method of obtaining intelligent results clearly shown. Only
arithmetic is used. Ohm's law is given a simple explanation with
reference to wiring for direct and alternating currents. The
fundamental principle of drop of potential in circuits is shown
with its various applications. The simple circuit is developed
with the position of mains, feeders and branches; their
treatment as a part of a wiring plan and their employment in
house wiring clearly illustrated. Some simple facts about
testing are included in connection with the wiring. Molding and
conduit work are given careful consideration; and switchboards
are systematically treated, built up and illustrated, showing
the purpose they serve, for connection with the circuits, and to
shunt and compound wound machines. The simple principles of
switchboard construction, the development of the switchboard,
the connections of the various instruments, including the
lightning arrester, are also plainly set forth.

