Alternating current wiring is treated, with explanations of the
power factor, conditions calling for various sizes of wire, and
a simple way of obtaining the sizes for single-phase, two-phase
and three-phase circuits. This is the only complete work issued
showing and telling you what you should know about direct and
alternating current wiring. It is a ready reference. The work is
free from advanced technicalities and mathematics, arithmetic
being used throughout. It is in every respect a handy,
well-written, instructive, comprehensive volume on wiring for
the wireman, foreman, contractor, or electrician. 2nd Revised
Edition. 303 pages, 130 illustrations. Price =$1.50=


=Electric Furnaces and their Industrial Applications.= By J. WRIGHT.

This is a book which will prove of interest to many classes of
people: the manufacturer who desires to know what product can be
manufactured successfully in the electric furnace, the chemist
who wishes to post himself on the electro-chemistry, and the
student of science who merely looks into the subject from
curiosity. New, Revised and Enlarged Edition. 320 pages. Fully
illustrated, cloth. Price =$3.00=


=Electric Toy Making, Dynamo Building, and Electric Motor Construction.=
By Prof. T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

This work treats of the making at home of electrical toys,
electrical apparatus, motors, dynamos, and instruments in
general, and is designed to bring within the reach of young and
old the manufacture of genuine and useful electrical appliances.
The work is especially designed for amateurs and young folks.

Thousands of our young people are daily experimenting, and
busily engaged in making electrical toys and apparatus of
various kinds. The present work is just what is wanted to give
the much needed information in a plain, practical manner, with
illustrations to make easy the carrying out of the work. 20th
Edition. Price =$1.00=


=Practical Electricity.= By Prof. T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

This work of 768 pages was previously known as Sloane's
Electricians' Hand Book, and is intended for the practical
electrician who has to make things go. The entire field of
electricity is covered within its pages. Among some of the
subjects treated are: The Theory of the Electric Current and
Circuit, Electro-Chemistry, Primary Batteries, Storage
Batteries, Generation and Utilization of Electric Powers,
Alternating Current, Armature Winding, Dynamos and Motors, Motor
Generators, Operation of the Central Station Switchboards,
Safety Appliances, Distribution of Electric Light and Power,
Street Mains, Transformers, Arc and Incandescent Lighting,
Electric Measurements, Photometry, Electric Railways, Telephony,
Bell-Wiring, Electric-Plating, Electric Heating, Wireless
Telegraphy, etc. It contains no useless theory; everything is to
the point. It teaches you just what you want to know about
electricity. It is the standard work published on the subject.
Forty-one chapters, 556 engravings. Price =$2.50=

