Every young man who wishes to become a successful electrician
should read this book. It tells in simple language the surest
and easiest way to become a successful electrician. The studies
to be followed, methods of work, field of operation and the
requirements of the successful electrician are pointed out and
fully explained. Every young engineer will find this an
excellent stepping stone to more advanced works on electricity
which he must master before success can be attained. Many young
men become discouraged at the very outstart by attempting to
read and study books that are far beyond their comprehension.
This book serves as the connecting link between the rudiments
taught in the public schools and the real study of electricity.
It is interesting from cover to cover. 18th Revised Edition,
just issued. 205 pages. Illustrated. Price =$1.00=


=Management of Dynamos.= By LUMMIS-PATERSON.

A handbook of theory and practice. This work is arranged in
three parts. The first part covers the elementary theory of the
dynamo. The second part, the construction and action of the
different classes of dynamos in common use are described; while
the third part relates to such matters as affect the practical
management and working of dynamos and motors. 4th Edition. 292
pages, 117 illustrations. Price =$1.50=


=Standard Electrical Dictionary.= By T. O'CONOR SLOANE.

An indispensable work to all interested in electrical science.
Suitable alike for the student and professional. A practical
handbook of reference containing definitions of about 5,000
distinct words, terms and phrases. The definitions are terse and
concise and include every term used in electrical science.
Recently issued. An entirely new edition. Should be in the
possession of all who desire to keep abreast with the progress
of this branch of science. In its arrangement and typography the
book is very convenient. The word or term defined is printed in
black-faced type, which readily catches the eye, while the body
of the page is in smaller but distinct type. The definitions are
well worded, and so as to be understood by the non-technical
reader. The general plan seems to be to give an exact, concise
definition, and then amplify and explain in a more popular way.
Synonyms are also given, and references to other words and
phrases are made. A very complete and accurate index of fifty
pages is at the end of the volume; and as this index contains
all synonyms, and as all phrases are indexed in every reasonable
combination of words, reference to the proper place in the body
of the book is readily made. It is difficult to decide how far a
book of this character is to keep the dictionary form, and to
what extent it may assume the encyclopedia form. For some
purposes, concise, exactly worded definitions are needed; for
other purposes, more extended descriptions are required. This
book seeks to satisfy both demands, and does it with
considerable success. 682 pages, 393 illustrations. 12th
Edition. Price =$3.00=

