This book is intended for the amateur, the wireman, or the
engineer who desires to establish a means of telephonic
communication between the rooms of his home, office, or shop. It
deals only with such things as may be of use to him rather than
with theories.

Gives the principles of construction and operation of both the
Bell and Independent instruments; approved methods of installing
and wiring them; the means of protecting them from lightning and
abnormal currents; their connection together for operation as
series or bridging stations; and rules for their inspection and
maintenance. Line wiring and the wiring and operation of special
telephone systems are also treated. Intricate mathematics are
avoided, and all apparatus, circuits and systems are thoroughly
described. The appendix contains definitions of units and terms
used in the text. Selected wiring tables, which are very
helpful, are also included. Among the subjects treated are
Construction, Operation, and Installation of Telephone
Instruments; Inspection and Maintenance of Telephone
Instruments; Telephone Line Wiring; Testing Telephone Line Wires
and Cables; Wiring and Operation of Special Telephone Systems,
etc. 2nd Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 223 pages, 154
illustrations. Price =$1.00=


=Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony Simply Explained.= By ALFRED P.
MORGAN.

This is undoubtedly one of the most complete and comprehensible
treatises on the subject ever published, and a close study of
its pages will enable one to master all the details of the
wireless transmission of messages. The author has filled a
long-felt want and has succeeded in furnishing a lucid,
comprehensible explanation in simple language of the theory and
practice of wireless telegraphy and telephony.

Among the contents are: Introductory; Wireless Transmission and
Reception--The Aerial System, Earth Connections--The
Transmitting Apparatus, Spark Coils and Transformers,
Condensers, Helixes, Spark Gaps, Anchor Gaps, Aerial
Switches--The Receiving Apparatus, Detectors, etc.--Tuning and
Coupling, Tuning Coils, Loose Couplers, Variable Condensers,
Directive Wave Systems--Miscellaneous Apparatus, Telephone
Receivers, Range of Stations, Static Interference--Wireless
Telephones, Sound and Sound Waves, The Vocal Cords and
Ear--Wireless Telephone, How Sounds Are Changed into Electric
Waves--Wireless Telephones, The Apparatus--Summary. 154 pages,
156 engravings. Price =$1.00=

