
=Wiring a House.= By HERBERT PRATT.

Shows a house already built; tells just how to start about
wiring it; where to begin; what wire to use; how to run it
according to Insurance Rules; in fact, just the information you
need. Directions apply equally to a shop. 4th Edition. Price =25
cents=


~FACTORY MANAGEMENT, ETC.~


=Modern Machine Shop Construction, Equipment and Management.= By O. E.
PERRIGO, M.E.

The only work published that describes the modern machine shop
or manufacturing plant from the time the grass is growing on the
site intended for it until the finished product is shipped. By a
careful study of its thirty-two chapters the practical man may
economically build, efficiently equip, and successfully manage
the modern machine shop or manufacturing establishment. Just the
book needed by those contemplating the erection of modern shop
buildings, the rebuilding and reorganization of old ones, or the
introduction of modern shop methods, time and cost systems. It
is a book written and illustrated by a practical shop man for
practical shop men who are too busy to read _theories_ and want
_facts_. It is the most complete all-around book of its kind
ever published. It is a practical book for practical men, from
the apprentice in the shop to the president in the office. It
minutely describes and illustrates the most simple and yet the
most efficient time and cost system yet devised. 2nd Revised and
Enlarged Edition, just issued. 384 pages, 219 illustrations.
Price =$5.00=


~FUEL~


=Combustion of Coal and the Prevention of Smoke.= By WM. M. BARR.

This book has been prepared with special reference to the
generation of heat by the combustion of the common fuels found
in the United States, and deals particularly with the conditions
necessary to the economic and smokeless combustion of bituminous
coals in Stationary and Locomotive Steam Boilers.

The presentation of this important subject is systematic and
progressive. The arrangement of the book is in a series of
practical questions to which are appended accurate answers,
which describe in language, free from technicalities, the
several processes involved in the furnace combustion of American
fuels; it clearly states the essential requisites for perfect
combustion, and points out the best methods for furnace
construction for obtaining the greatest quantity of heat from
any given quality of coal. Nearly 350 pages, fully illustrated.
Price =$1.00=

