"Am much pleased with the book and find it to be very complete
and up-to-date. I will heartily recommend it to students and
farmers whom I think would stand in need of such a work, as I
think it is an exceptionally good one."--_N. S. Gardiner_, Prof.
in Charge, Clemson Agr. College of S. C.; Dept. of Agri. and
Agri. Exp. Station, Clemson College, S. C.

"I feel that Mr. Putnam's book covers the main points which a
farmer should know."--_R. T. Burdick_, Instructor in Agronomy,
University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt.


=Gasoline Engines: Their Operation, Use and Care.= By A. HYATT VERRILL.

The simplest, latest and most comprehensive popular work
published on Gasoline Engines, describing what the Gasoline
Engine is; its construction and operation; how to install it;
how to select it; how to use it and how to remedy troubles
encountered. Intended for Owners, Operators and Users of
Gasoline Motors of all kinds. This work fully describes and
illustrates the various types of Gasoline Engines used in Motor
Boats, Motor Vehicles and Stationary Work. The parts,
accessories and appliances are described with chapters on
ignition, fuel, lubrication, operation and engine troubles.
Special attention is given to the care, operation and repair of
motors, with useful hints and suggestions on emergency repairs
and makeshifts. A complete glossary of technical terms and an
alphabetically arranged table of troubles and their symptoms
form most valuable and unique features of this manual. Nearly
every illustration in the book is original, having been made by
the author. Every page is full of interest and value. A book
which you cannot afford to be without. 275 pages, 152 specially
made engravings. Price =$1.50=


=Gas Engine Construction, or How to Build a Half-horsepower Gas Engine.=
By PARSELL and WEED.

A practical treatise of 300 pages describing the theory and
principles of the action of Gas Engines of various types and the
design and construction of a half-horsepower Gas Engine, with
illustrations of the work in actual progress, together with the
dimensioned working drawings, giving clearly the sizes of the
various details; for the student, the scientific investigator,
and the amateur mechanic. This book treats of the subject more
from the standpoint of practice than that of theory. The
principles of operation of Gas Engines are clearly and simply
described, and then the actual construction of a half-horsepower
engine is taken up, step by step, showing in detail the making
of the Gas Engine. 3rd Edition. 300 pages. Price =$2.50=

