
~GEARING AND CAMS~


=Bevel Gear Tables.= By D. AG. ENGSTROM.

A book that will at once commend itself to mechanics and
draftsmen. Does away with all the trigonometry and fancy
figuring on bevel gears, and makes it easy for anyone to lay
them out or make them just right. There are 36 full-page tables
that show every necessary dimension for all sizes or
combinations you're apt to need. No puzzling, figuring or
guessing. Gives placing distance, all the angles (including
cutting angles), and the correct cutter to use. A copy of this
prepares you for anything in the bevel-gear line. 3rd Edition.
66 pages. Price =$1.00=


=Change Gear Devices.= By OSCAR E. PERRIGO.

A practical book for every designer, draftsman, and mechanic
interested in the invention and development of the devices for
feed changes on the different machines requiring such mechanism.
All the necessary information on this subject is taken up,
analyzed, classified, sifted, and concentrated for the use of
busy men who have not the time to go through the masses of
irrelevant matter with which such a subject is usually
encumbered and select such information as will be useful to
them.

It shows just what has been done, how it has been done, when it
was done, and who did it. It saves time in hunting up patent
records and re-inventing old ideas. 88 pages. 3rd Edition. Price
=$1.00=


=Drafting of Cams.= By LOUIS ROUILLION.

The laying out of cams is a serious problem unless you know how
to go at it right. This puts you on the right road for
practically any kind of cam you are likely to run up against.
3rd Edition. Price =25 Cents=


~HYDRAULICS~


=Hydraulic Engineering.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX.

A treatise on the properties, power, and resources of water for
all purposes. Including the measurement of streams, the flow of
water in pipes or conduits; the horsepower of falling water,
turbine and impact water-wheels, wave motors, centrifugal,
reciprocating and air-lift pumps. With 300 figures and diagrams
and 36 practical tables. All who are interested in water-works
development will find this book a useful one, because it is an
entirely practical treatise upon a subject of present importance
and cannot fail in having a far-reaching influence, and for this
reason should have a place in the working library of every
engineer. Among the subjects treated are: Historical Hydraulics;
Properties of Water; Measurement of the Flow of Streams; Flow
from Sub-surface Orifices and Nozzles; Flow of Water in Pipes;
Siphons of Various Kinds; Dams and Great Storage Reservoirs;
City and Town Water Supply; Wells and Their Reinforcement;
Air-lift Methods of Raising Water; Artesian Wells; Irrigation of
Arid Districts; Water Power; Water Wheels; Pumps and Pumping
Machinery; Reciprocating Pumps; Hydraulic Power Transmission;
Hydraulic Mining; Canals; Ditches; Conduits and Pipe Lines;
Marine Hydraulics; Tidal and Sea Wave Power, etc. 320 pages.
Price =$4.00=

