
~ICE AND REFRIGERATION~


=Pocketbook of Refrigeration and Ice Making.= By A. J. WALLIS-TAYLOR.

This is one of the latest and most comprehensive reference books
published on the subject of refrigeration and cold storage. It
explains the properties and refrigerating effect of the
different fluids in use, the management of refrigerating
machinery and the construction and insulation of cold rooms with
their required pipe surface for different degrees of cold;
freezing mixtures and non-freezing brines, temperatures of cold
rooms for all kinds of provisions, cold storage charges for all
classes of goods, ice making and storage of ice, data and
memoranda for constant reference by refrigerating engineers,
with nearly one hundred tables containing valuable references to
every fact and condition required in the installment and
operation of a refrigerating plant. New edition just published.
Price =$1.50=


~INVENTIONS--PATENTS~


=Inventors' Manual: How to Make a Patent Pay.=

This is a book designed as a guide to inventors in perfecting
their inventions, taking out their patents and disposing of
them. It is not in any sense a Patent Solicitor's Circular nor a
Patent Broker's Advertisement. No advertisements of any
description appear in the work. It is a book containing a
quarter of a century's experience of a successful inventor,
together with notes based upon the experience of many other
inventors.

Among the subjects treated in this work are: How to Invent. How
to Secure a Good Patent. Value of Good Invention. How to Exhibit
an Invention. How to Interest Capital. How to Estimate the Value
of a Patent. Value of Design Patents. Value of Foreign Patents.
Value of Small Inventions. Advice on Selling Patents. Advice on
the Formation of Stock Companies. Advice on the Formation of
Limited Liability Companies. Advice on Disposing of Old Patents.
Advice as to Patent Attorneys. Advice as to Selling Agents.
Forms of Assignments. License and Contracts. State Laws
Concerning Patent Rights. 1900 Census of the United States by
Counts of Over 10,000 Population. Revised Edition. 120 pages.
Price =$1.00=

