
~KNOTS~


=Knots, Splices and Rope Work.= By A. HYATT VERRILL.

This is a practical book giving complete and simple directions
for making all the most useful and ornamental knots in common
use, with chapters on Splicing, Pointing, Seizing, Serving, etc.
This book is fully illustrated with 154 original engravings,
which show how each knot, tie or splice is formed, and its
appearance when finished. The book will be found of the greatest
value to Campers, Yachtsmen, Travelers, Boy Scouts, in fact, to
anyone having occasion to use or handle rope or knots for any
purpose. The book is thoroughly reliable and practical, and is
not only a guide, but a teacher. It is the standard work on the
subject. Among the contents are: 1. Cordage, Kinds of Rope.
Construction of Rope, Parts of Rope Cable and Bolt Rope.
Strength of Rope, Weight of Rope. 2. Simple Knots and Bends.
Terms Used in Handling Rope. Seizing Rope. 3. Ties and Hitches.
4. Noose, Loops and Mooring Knots. 5. Shortenings, Grommets and
Salvages. 6. Lashings, Seizings and Splices. 7. Fancy Knots and
Rope Work. 128 pages, 150 original engravings. 2nd Revised
Edition. Price =75 cents=


~LATHE WORK~


=Lathe Design, Construction, and Operation, with Practical Examples of
Lathe Work.= By OSCAR E. PERRIGO.

A new, revised edition, and the only complete American work on
the subject, written by a man who knows not only how work ought
to be done, but who also knows how to do it, and how to convey
this knowledge to others. It is strictly up-to-date in its
descriptions and illustrations. Lathe history and the relations
of the lathe to manufacturing are given; also a description of
the various devices for feeds and thread-cutting mechanisms from
early efforts in this direction to the present time. Lathe
design is thoroughly discussed, including back gearing, driving
cones, thread-cutting gears, and all the essential elements of
the modern lathe. The classification of lathes is taken up,
giving the essential differences of the several types of lathes
including, as is usually understood, engine lathes, bench
lathes, speed lathes, forge lathes, gap lathes, pulley lathes,
forming lathes, multiple-spindle lathes, rapid-reduction lathes,
precision lathes, turret lathes, special lathes, electrically
driven lathes, etc. In addition to the complete exposition on
construction and design, much practical matter on lathe
installation, care and operation has been incorporated in the
enlarged new edition. All kinds of lathe attachments for
drilling, milling, etc., are described and complete instructions
are given to enable the novice machinist to grasp the art of
lathe operation as well as the principles involved in design. A
number of difficult machining operations are described at length
and illustrated. The new edition has nearly 500 pages and 350
illustrations. Price =$2.50=

