
=Application of Highly Superheated Steam to Locomotives.= By ROBERT
GARBE.

A practical book which cannot be recommended too highly to those
motive-power men who are anxious to maintain the highest
efficiency in their locomotives. Contains special chapters on
Generation of Highly Superheated Steam; Superheated Steam and
the Two-Cylinder Simple Engine; Compounding and Superheating;
Designs of Locomotive Superheaters; Constructive Details of
Locomotives Using Highly Superheated Steam. Experimental and
Working Results. Illustrated with folding plates and tables.
Cloth. Price =$2.50=


=Combustion of Coal and the Prevention of Smoke.= By WM. M. BARR.

This book has been prepared with special reference to the
generation of heat by the combustion of the common fuels found
in the United States and deals particularly with the conditions
necessary to the economic and smokeless combustion of bituminous
coal in Stationary and Locomotive Steam Boilers.

Presentation of this important subject is systematic and
progressive. The arrangement of the book is in a series of
practical questions to which are appended accurate answers,
which describe in language free from technicalities the several
processes involved in the furnace combustion of American fuels;
it clearly states the essential requisites for perfect
combustion, and points out the best methods of furnace
construction for obtaining the greatest quantity of heat from
any given quality of coal. Nearly 350 pages, fully illustrated.
Price =$1.00=


=Diary of a Round-House Foreman.= By T. S. REILLY.

This is the greatest book of railroad experiences ever
published. Containing a fund of information and suggestions
along the line of handling men, organizing, etc., that one
cannot afford to miss. 176 pages. Price =$1.00=


=Link Motions, Valves and Valve Setting.= By FRED H. COLVIN, Associate
Editor of "American Machinist."

A handy book for the engineer or machinist that clears up the
mysteries of valve setting. Shows the different valve gears in
use, how they work, and why. Piston and slide valves of
different types are illustrated and explained. A book that every
railroad man in the motive-power department ought to have.
Contains chapters on Locomotive Link Motion, Valve Movements,
Setting Slide Valves, Analysis by Diagrams, Modern Practice,
Slip of Block, Slice Valves, Piston Valves, Setting Piston
Valves, Joy-Allen Valve Gear, Walschaert Valve Gear, Gooch Valve
Gear, Alfree-Hubbell Valve Gear, etc., etc. Fully illustrated.
Price =50 cents=

