The revised edition of "Locomotive Catechism," by Robert
Grimshaw, is a New Book from Cover to Cover. It contains twice
as many pages and double the number of illustrations of previous
editions. Includes the greatest amount of practical information
ever published on the construction and management of modern
locomotives. Specially Prepared Chapters on the Walschaert
Locomotive Valve Gear, the Air-Brake Equipment and the Electric
Headlight are given.

It commends itself at once to every Engineer and Fireman, and to
all who are going in for examination or promotion. In plain
language, with full, complete answers, not only all the
questions asked by the examining engineer are given, but those
which the young and less experienced would ask the veteran, and
which old hands ask as "stickers." It is a veritable
Encyclopedia of the Locomotive, is entirely free from
mathematics, easily understood and thoroughly up to date.
Contains over 4,000 Examination Questions with their Answers.
825 pages, 437 illustrations, and 3 folding plates. 28th Revised
Edition. Price =$2.50=


=Practical Instructor and Reference Book for Locomotive Firemen and
Engineers.= By CHAS. F. LOCKHART.

An entirely new book on the Locomotive. It appeals to every
railroad man, as it tells him how things are done and the right
way to do them. Written by a man who has had years of practical
experience in locomotive shops and on the road firing and
running. The information given in this book cannot be found in
any other similar treatise. Eight hundred and fifty-one
questions with their answers are included, which will prove
specially helpful to those preparing for examination. Practical
information on: The Construction and Operation of Locomotives,
Breakdowns and their Remedies, Air Brakes and Valve Gears. Rules
and Signals are handled in a thorough manner. As a book of
reference it cannot be excelled. The book is divided into six
parts, as follows: 1. The Fireman's Duties. 2. General
Description of the Locomotive. 3. Breakdowns and their Remedies.
4. Air Brakes. 5. Extracts from Standard Rules. 6. Questions for
Examination. The 851 questions have been carefully selected and
arranged. These cover the examinations required by the different
railroads. 368 pages, 88 illustrations. Price =$1.50=

