
=Prevention of Railroad Accidents, or Safety in Railroading.= By GEORGE
BRADSHAW.

This book is a heart-to-heart talk with Railroad Employees,
dealing with facts, not theories, and showing the men in the
ranks, from every-day experience, how accidents occur and how
they may be avoided. The book is illustrated with seventy
original photographs and drawings showing the safe and unsafe
methods of work. No visionary schemes, no ideal pictures. Just
Plain Facts and Practical Suggestions are given. Every railroad
employee who reads the book is a better and safer man to have in
railroad service. It gives just the information which will be
the means of preventing many injuries and deaths. All railroad
employees should procure a copy, read it, and do their part in
preventing accidents. 169 pages. Pocket size. Fully illustrated.
Price =50 cents=


=Train Rule Examinations Made Easy.= By G. E. COLLINGWOOD.

This is the only practical work on train rules in print. Every
detail is covered, and puzzling points are explained in simple,
comprehensive language, making it a practical treatise for the
Train Dispatcher, Engineman, Trainman, and all others who have
to do with the movements of trains. Contains complete and
reliable information of the Standard Code of Train Rules for
single track. Shows Signals in Colors, as used on the different
roads. Explains fully the practical application of train orders,
giving a clear and definite understanding of all orders which
may be used. The meaning and necessity for certain rules are
explained in such a manner that the student may know beyond a
doubt the rights conferred under any orders he may receive or
the action required by certain rules. As nearly all roads
require trainmen to pass regular examinations, a complete set of
examination questions, with their answers, are included. These
will enable the student to pass the required examinations with
credit to himself and the road for which he works. 2nd Edition,
Revised. 256 pages, fully illustrated, with Train Signals in
Colors. Price =$1.25=

