
=The Walschaert and Other Modern Radial Valve Gears for Locomotives.= By
WM. W. WOOD.

If you would thoroughly understand the Walschaert Valve Gear you
should possess a copy of this book, as the author takes the
plainest form of a steam engine--a stationary engine in the
rough, that will only turn its crank in one direction--and from
it builds up, with the reader's help, a modern locomotive
equipped with the Walschaert Valve Gear, complete. The points
discussed are clearly illustrated: Two large folding plates that
show the positions of the valves of both inside or outside
admission type, as well as the links and other parts of the gear
when the crank is at nine different points in its revolution,
are especially valuable in making the movement clear. These
employ sliding cardboard models which are contained in a pocket
in the cover.

The book is divided into five general divisions, as follows: 1.
Analysis of the gear. 2. Designing and erecting the gear. 3.
Advantages of the gear. 4. Questions and answers relating to the
Walschaert Valve Gear. 5. Setting valves with the Walschaert
Valve Gear; the three primary types of locomotive valve motion;
modern radial valve gears other than the Walschaert; the Hobart
All-free Valve and Valve Gear, with questions and answers on
breakdowns; the Baker-Pilliod Valve Gear; the Improved
Baker-Pilliod Valve Gear, with questions and answers on
breakdowns.

The questions with full answers given will be especially
valuable to firemen and engineers in preparing for an
examination for promotion. 245 pages. 3rd Revised Edition. Price
=$1.50=


=Westinghouse E-T Air-Brake Instruction Pocket Book.= By WM. W. WOOD,
Air-Brake Instructor.

Here is a book for the railroad man, and the man who aims to be
one. It is without doubt the only complete work published on the
Westinghouse E-T Locomotive Brake Equipment. Written by an
Air-Brake Instructor who knows just what is needed. It covers
the subject thoroughly. Everything about the New Westinghouse
Engine and Tender Brake Equipment, including the standard No. 5
and the Perfected No. 6 style of brake, is treated in detail.
Written in plain English and profusely illustrated with Colored
Plates, which enable one to trace the flow of pressures
throughout the entire equipment. The best book ever published on
the Air Brake. Equally good for the beginner and the advanced
engineer. Will pass any one through any examination. It informs
and enlightens you on every point. Indispensable to every
engineman and trainman.

