Contains examination questions and answers on the E-T equipment.
Covering what the E-T Brake is. How it should be operated. What
to do when defective. Not a question can be asked of the
engineman up for promotion, on either the No. 5 or the No. 6 E-T
equipment, that is not asked and answered in the book. If you
want to thoroughly understand the E-T equipment get a copy of
this book. It covers every detail. Makes Air-Brake troubles and
examinations easy. Price =$1.50=


~MACHINE-SHOP PRACTICE~


=American Tool Making and Interchangeable Manufacturing.= By J. V.
WOODWORTH.

A "shoppy" book, containing no theorizing, no problematical or
experimental devices. There are no badly proportioned and
impossible diagrams, no catalogue cuts, but a valuable
collection of drawings and descriptions of devices, the rich
fruits of the author's own experience. In its 500-odd pages the
one subject only, Tool Making, and whatever relates thereto, is
dealt with. The work stands without a rival. It is a complete,
practical treatise, on the art of American Tool Making and
system of interchangeable manufacturing as carried on to-day in
the United States. In it are described and illustrated all of
the different types and classes of small tools, fixtures,
devices, and special appliances which are in general use in all
machine-manufacturing and metal-working establishments where
economy, capacity, and interchangeability in the production of
machined metal parts are imperative. The science of jig making
is exhaustively discussed, and particular attention is paid to
drill jigs, boring, profiling and milling fixtures and other
devices in which the parts to be machined are located and
fastened within the contrivances. All of the tools, fixtures,
and devices illustrated and described have been or are used for
the actual production of work, such as parts of drill presses,
lathes, patented machinery, typewriters, electrical apparatus,
mechanical appliances, brass goods, composition parts, mould
products, sheet-metal articles, drop-forgings, jewelry, watches,
medals, coins, etc. 531 pages. Price =$4.00=

