There is nothing experimental or visionary about the book, all
devices being in actual use and giving good results. It might be
called a compendium of shop methods, showing a variety of
special tools and appliances which will give new ideas to many
mechanics, from the superintendent down to the man at the bench.
It will be found a valuable addition to any machinist's library,
and should be consulted whenever a new or difficult job is to be
done, whether it is boring, milling, turning, or planing, as
they are all treated m a practical manner. Fifth edition. 320
pages. 250 illustrations. Price =$2.50=


=THE WHOLE FIELD OF MECHANICAL MOVEMENTS COVERED BY MR. HISCOX'S TWO
BOOKS=

_We publish two books by Gardner D. Hiscox that will keep you
from "inventing" things that have been done before, and suggest
ways of doing things that you have not thought of before. Many a
man spends time and money pondering over some mechanical
problem, only to learn, after he has solved the problem, that
the same thing has been accomplished and put in practice by
others long before. Time and money spent in an effort to
accomplish what has already been accomplished are time and money
LOST. The whole field of mechanics, every known mechanical
movement, and practically every device are covered by these two
books. If the thing you want has been invented, it is
illustrated in them. If it hasn't been invented, then you'll
find in them the nearest things to what you want, some movements
or devices that will apply in your case, perhaps; or which will
give you a key from which to work. No book or set of books ever
published is of more real value to the Inventor, Draftsman, or
practical Mechanic than the two volumes described below._


=Mechanical Movements, Powers, and Devices.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX.

This is a collection of 1,890 engravings of different mechanical
motions and appliances, accompanied by appropriate text, making
it a book of great value to the inventor, the draftsman, and to
all readers with mechanical tastes. The book is divided into
eighteen sections or chapters, in which the subject-matter is
classified under the following heads: Mechanical Powers;
Transmission of Power; Measurement of Power; Steam Power; Air
Power Appliances; Electric Power and Construction; Navigation
and Roads; Gearing; Motion and Devices; Controlling Motion;
Horological; Mining; Mill and Factory Appliances; Construction
and Devices; Drafting Devices; Miscellaneous Devices, etc. 15th
Edition. 400 octavo pages. Price =$3.00=

