
=Mechanical Appliances, Mechanical Movements and Novelties of
Construction.= By GARDNER D. HISCOX.

This is a supplementary volume to the one upon mechanical
movements. Unlike the first volume, which is more elementary in
character, this volume contains illustrations and descriptions
of many combinations of motions and of mechanical devices and
appliances found in different lines of machinery, each device
being shown by a line drawing with a description showing its
working parts and the method of operation. From the multitude of
devices described and illustrated might be mentioned, in
passing, such items as conveyors and elevators, Pony brakes,
thermometers, various types of boilers, solar engines, oil-fuel
burners, condensers, evaporators, Corliss and other valve gears,
governors, gas engines, water motors of various descriptions,
air ships, motors and dynamos, automobile and motor bicycles,
railway lock signals, car couplers, link and gear motions, ball
bearings, breech-block mechanism for heavy guns, and a large
accumulation of others of equal importance. One thousand
specially made engravings. 396 octavo pages. Fourth edition.
Price =$3.00=


=Machine-Shop Tools and Shop Practice.= By W. H. VANDERVOORT.

A work of 555 pages and 673 illustrations, describing in every
detail the construction, operation and manipulation of both hand
and machine tools. Includes chapters on filing, fitting and
scraping surfaces; on drills, reamers, taps and dies; the lathe
and its tools: planers, shapers, and their tools; milling
machines and cutters; gear cutters and gear cutting; drilling
machines and drill work; grinding machines and their work;
hardening and tempering; gearing, belting and transmission
machinery; useful data and tables. Sixth edition. Price =$3.00=


=Machine-Shop Arithmetic.= By COLVIN-CHENEY.

This is an arithmetic of the things you have to do with daily.
It tells you plainly about: how to find areas in figures; how to
find surface or volume of balls or spheres; handy ways for
calculating; about compound gearing; cutting screw threads on
any lathe; drilling for taps; speeds of drills; taps, emery
wheels, grindstones, milling cutters, etc.; all about the Metric
system with conversion tables; properties of metals; strength of
bolts and nuts; decimal equivalent of an inch. All sorts of
machine-shop figuring and 1,001 other things, any one of which
ought to be worth more than the price of this book to you, as it
saves you the trouble of bothering the boss. 6th Edition. 131
pages. Price =50 cents=

