
=Modern Machine-Shop Construction, Equipment and Management.= By OSCAR
E. PERRIGO.

The only work published that describes the Modern Shop or
Manufacturing Plant from the time the grass is growing on the
site intended for it until the finished product is shipped. Just
the book needed by those contemplating the erection of modern
shop buildings, the rebuilding and reorganization of old ones,
or the introduction of Modern Shop Methods, time and cost
systems. It is a book written and illustrated by a practical
shop man for practical shop men who are too busy to read
theories and want facts. It is the most complete all-round book
of its kind ever published. Second Edition, Revised. 384 large
quarto pages. 219 original and specially made illustrations. 2nd
Revised and Enlarged Edition. Price =$5.00=


=Modern Milling Machines: Their Design, Construction, and Operation.= By
JOSEPH G. HORNER.

This book describes and illustrates the Milling Machine and its
work in such a plain, clear and forceful manner, and illustrates
the subject so clearly and completely, that the up-to-date
machinist, student or mechanical engineer cannot afford to do
without the valuable information which it contains. It describes
not only the early machines of this class, but notes their
gradual development into the splendid machines of the present
day, giving the design and construction of the various types,
forms, and special features produced by prominent manufacturers,
American and foreign. 304 pages, 300 illustrations. Cloth. Price
=$4.00=


="Shop Kinks."= By ROBERT GRIMSHAW.

A book of 400 pages and 222 illustrations, being entirely
different from any other book on machine-shop practice.
Departing from conventional style, the author avoids universal
or common shop usage and limits his work to showing special ways
of doing things better, more cheaply and more rapidly than
usual. As a result the advanced methods of representative
establishments of the world are placed at the disposal of the
reader. This book shows the proprietor where large savings are
possible, and how products may be improved. To the employee it
holds out suggestions that, properly applied, will hasten his
advancement. No shop can afford to be without it. It bristles
with valuable wrinkles and helpful suggestions. It will benefit
all, from apprentice to proprietor. Every machinist, at any age,
should study its pages. Fifth edition. Price =$2.50=

