
=Threads and Thread Cutting.= By COLVIN and STABEL.

This clears up many of the mysteries of thread-cutting, such as
double and triple threads, internal threads, catching threads,
use of hobs, etc. Contains a lot of useful hints and several
tables. Third edition. Price =25 cents=


~MANUAL TRAINING~


=Economics of Manual Training.= By LOUIS ROUILLION.

The only book published that gives just the information needed
by all interested in Manual Training, regarding Buildings,
Equipment, and Supplies. Shows exactly what is needed for all
grades of the work from the Kindergarten to the High and Normal
School. Gives itemized lists of everything used in Manual
Training Work and tells just what it ought to cost. Also shows
where to buy supplies, etc. Contains 174 pages, and is fully
illustrated. Second edition. Price =$1.50=


~MARINE ENGINEERING~


=The Naval Architect's and Shipbuilder's Pocket Book of Formulæ, Rules,
and Tables and Marine Engineer's and Surveyor's Handy Book of
Reference.= By CLEMENT MACKROW and LLOYD WOOLLARD.

The eleventh Revised and Enlarged Edition of this most
comprehensive work has just been issued. It is absolutely
indispensable to all engaged in the Shipbuilding Industry, as it
condenses into a compact form all data and formulæ that are
ordinarily required. The book is completely up to date,
including among other subjects a section on Aeronautics. 750
pages, limp leather binding. Price =$5.00 net=


=Marine Engines and Boilers: Their Design and Construction.= By DR. G.
BAUER, LESLIE S. ROBERTSON and S. BRYAN DONKIN.

In the words of Dr. Bauer, the present work owes its origin to
an oft felt want of a condensed treatise embodying the
theoretical and practical rules used in designing marine engines
and boilers. The need of such a work has been felt by most
engineers engaged in the construction and working of marine
engines, not only by the younger men, but also by those of
greater experience. The fact that the original German work was
written by the chief engineer of the famous Vulcan Works,
Stettin, is in itself a guarantee that this book is in all
respects thoroughly up-to-date, and that it embodies all the
information which is necessary for the design and construction
of the highest types of marine engines and boilers. It may be
said that the motive power which Dr. Bauer has placed in the
fast German liners that have been turned out of late years from
the Stettin Works represent the very best practice in marine
engineering of the present day. The work is clearly written,
thoroughly systematic, theoretically sound; while the character
of the plans, drawings, tables, and statistics is without
reproach. The illustrations are careful reproductions from
actual working drawings, with some well-executed photographic
views of completed engines and boilers. 744 pages, 550
illustrations and numerous tables. Cloth. Price =$9.00 net=

