
~MINING~


=Ore Deposits, with a Chapter on Hints to Prospectors.= By J. P.
JOHNSON.

This book gives a condensed account of the ore deposits at
present known in South Africa. It is also intended as a guide to
the prospector. Only an elementary knowledge of geology and some
mining experience are necessary in order to understand this
work. With these qualifications, it will materially assist one
in his search for metalliferous mineral occurrences and, so far
as simple ores are concerned, should enable one to form some
idea of the possibilities of any he may find. Illustrated.
Cloth. Price =$2.00=


=Practical Coal Mining.= By T. H. COCKIN.

An important work, containing 428 pages and 213 illustrations,
complete with practical details, which will intuitively impart
to the reader not only a general knowledge of the principles of
coal mining, but also considerable insight into allied subjects.
The treatise is positively up-to-date in every instance, and
should be in the hands of every colliery engineer, geologist,
mine operator, superintendent, foreman, and all others who are
interested in or connected with the industry. 3d Edition. Cloth.
Price =$2.50=


=Physics and Chemistry of Mining.= By T. H. BYROM.

A practical work for the use of all preparing for examinations
in mining or qualifying for colliery managers' certificates. The
aim of the author in this excellent book is to place clearly
before the reader useful and authoritative data which will
render him valuable assistance in his studies. The only work of
its kind published. The information incorporated in it will
prove of the greatest practical utility to students, mining
engineers, colliery managers, and all others who are specially
interested in the present-day treatment of mining problems. 160
pages, illustrated. Price =$2.00=


~PATTERN MAKING~


=Practical Pattern Making.= By F. W. BARROWS.

This book, now in its second edition, is a comprehensive and
entirely practical treatise on the subject of pattern making,
illustrating pattern work in both wood and metal, and with
definite instructions on the use of plaster of paris in the
trade. It gives specific and detailed descriptions of the
materials used by pattern makers, and describes the tools, both
those for the bench and the more interesting machine tools,
having complete chapters on the Lathe, the Circular Saw, and the
Band Saw. It gives many examples of pattern work, each one fully
illustrated and explained with much detail. These examples, in
their great variety, offer much that will be found of interest
to all pattern makers, and especially to the younger ones, who
are seeking information on the more advanced branches of their
trade.

