In this second edition of the work will be found much that is
new, even to those who have long practised this exacting trade.
In the description of patterns as adapted to the Moulding
Machine many difficulties which have long prevented the rapid
and economical production of castings are overcome; and this
great, new branch of the trade is given much space. Stripping
plate and stool plate work and the less expensive vibrator, or
rapping plate work, are all explained in detail.

Plain, every-day rules for lessening the cost of patterns, with
a complete system of cost keeping, a detailed method of marking,
applicable to all branches of the trade, with complete
information showing what the pattern is, its specific title, its
cost, date of production, material of which it is made, the
number of pieces and core-boxes, and its location in the pattern
safe, all condensed into a most complete card record, with cross
index. The book closes with an original and practical method for
the inventory and valuation of patterns. Containing nearly 350
pages and 170 illustrations. Price =$2.00=


~PERFUMERY~


=Perfumes and Cosmetics: Their Preparation and Manufacture.= By G. W.
ASKINSON, Perfumer.

A comprehensive treatise, in which there has been nothing
omitted that could be of value to the perfumer or manufacturer
of toilet preparations. Complete directions for making
handkerchief perfumes, smelling-salts, sachets, fumigating
pastilles; preparations for the care of the skin, the mouth, the
hair, cosmetics, hair dyes and other toilet articles are given,
also a detailed description of aromatic substances; their
nature, tests of purity, and wholesome manufacture, including a
chapter on synthetic products, with formulas for their use. A
book of general as well as professional interest, meeting the
wants not only of the druggist and perfume manufacturer, but
also of the general public. Among the contents are: 1. The
History of Perfumery. 2. About Aromatic Substances in General.
3. Odors from the Vegetable Kingdom. 4. The Aromatic Vegetable
Substances Employed in Perfumery. 5. The Animal Substances Used
in Perfumery. 6. The Chemical Products Used in Perfumery. 7. The
Extraction of Odors. 8. The Special Characteristics of Aromatic
Substances. 9 The Adulteration of Essential Oils and Their
Recognition. 10. Synthetic Products. 11. Table of Physical
Properties of Aromatic Chemicals. 12. The Essences or Extracts
Employed in Perfumery. 13. Directions for Making the Most
Important Essences and Extracts. 14. The Division of Perfumery.
15. The Manufacture of Handkerchief Perfumes. 16. Formulas for
Handkerchief Perfumes. 17. Ammoniacal and Acid Perfumes. 18. Dry
Perfumes. 19. Formulas for Dry Perfumes. 20. The Perfumes Used
for Fumigation. 21. Antiseptic and Therapeutic Value of
Perfumes. 22. Classification of Odors. 23. Some Special
Perfumery Products. 24. Hygiene and Cosmetic Perfumery. 25.
Preparations for the Care of the Skin. 26. Manufacture of
Casein. 27. Formulas for Emulsions. 28. Formulas for Cream. 29.
Formulas for Meals, Pastes and Vegetable Milk. 30. Preparations
Used for the Hair. 31. Formulas for Hair Tonics and Restorers.
32. Pomades and Hair Oils 33. Formulas for the Manufacture of
Pomades and Hair Oils. 34. Hair Dyes and Depilatories. 35. Wax
Pomades, Bandolines and Brilliantines. 36. Skin Cosmetics and
Face Lotions. 37. Preparations for the Nails. 38. Water
Softeners and Bath Salts. 39. Preparations for the Care of the
Mouth. 40. The Colors Used in Perfumery. 41. The Utensils Used
in the Toilet. Fourth edition, much enlarged and brought up to
date. Nearly 400 pages, illustrated. Price =$5.00=

