WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"The most satisfactory work on the subject of Perfumery that we
have ever seen."

"We feel safe in saying that here is a book on Perfumery that
will not disappoint you, for it has practical and excellent
formulæ that are within your ability to prepare readily."

"We recommend the volume as worthy of confidence, and say that
no purchaser will be disappointed in securing from its pages
good value for its cost, and a large dividend on the same, even
if he should use but one per cent. of its working formulæ. There
is money in it for every user of its
information."--_Pharmaceutical Record._


~PLUMBING~


=Mechanical Drawing for Plumbers.= By R. M. STARBUCK.

A concise, comprehensive and practical treatise on the subject
of mechanical drawing in its various modern applications to the
work of all who are in any way connected with the plumbing
trade. Nothing will so help the plumber in estimating and in
explaining work to customers and workmen as a knowledge of
drawing, and to the workman it is of inestimable value if he is
to rise above his position to positions of greater
responsibility. Among the chapters contained are: 1. Value to
plumber of knowledge of drawing; tools required and their use;
common views needed in mechanical drawing. 2. Perspective versus
mechanical drawing in showing plumbing construction. 3. Correct
and incorrect methods in plumbing drawing; plan and elevation
explained. 4. Floor and cellar plans and elevation; scale
drawings; use of triangles. 5. Use of triangles; drawing of
fittings, traps, etc. 6. Drawing plumbing elevations and
fittings. 7. Instructions in drawing plumbing elevations. 8. The
drawing of plumbing fixtures; scale drawings. 9. Drawings of
fixtures and fittings. 10. Inking of drawings. 11. Shading of
drawings. 12. Shading of drawings. 13. Sectional drawings;
drawing of threads. 14. Plumbing elevations from architect's
plan. 15. Elevations of separate parts of the plumbing system.
16. Elevations from the architect's plans. 17. Drawings of
detail plumbing connections. 18. Architect's plans and plumbing
elevations of residence. 19. Plumbing elevations of residence
(_continued_); plumbing plans for cottage. 20. Plumbing
elevations; roof connections. 21. Plans and plumbing elevations
for six-flat building. 22. Drawing of various parts of the
plumbing system; use of scales. 23. Use of architect's scales.
24. Special features in the illustrations of country plumbing.
25. Drawing of wrought-iron piping, valves, radiators, coils,
etc. 26. Drawing of piping to illustrate heating systems. 150
illustrations. Price =$1.50=

