
=Modern Plumbing Illustrated.= By R. M. STARBUCK.

This book represents the highest standard of plumbing work. It
has been adopted and used as a reference book by the United
States Government in its sanitary work in Cuba, Porto Rico and
the Philippines, and by the principal Boards of Health of the
United States and Canada.

It gives connections, sizes and working data for all fixtures
and groups of fixtures. It is helpful to the master plumber in
demonstrating to his customers and in figuring work. It gives
the mechanic and student quick and easy access to the best
modern plumbing practice. Suggestions for estimating plumbing
construction are contained in its pages. This book represents,
in a word, the latest and best up-to-date practice and should be
in the hands of every architect, sanitary engineer and plumber
who wishes to keep himself up to the minute on this important
feature of construction. Contains following chapters, each
illustrated with a full-page plate: Kitchen sink, laundry tubs,
vegetable wash sink; lavatories, pantry sinks, contents of
marble slabs; bath tub, foot and sitz bath, shower bath; water
closets, venting of water closets; low-down water closets, water
closets operated by flush valves, water closet range; slop sink,
urinals, the bidet; hotel and restaurant sink, grease trap;
refrigerators, safe wastes, laundry waste, lines of
refrigerators, bar sinks, soda fountain sinks; horse stall,
frost-proof water closets; connections for S traps, venting;
connections for drum traps; soil-pipe connections; supporting of
soil pipe; main trap and fresh-air inlet: floor drains and
cellar drains, subsoil drainage; water closets and floor
connections; local venting; connections for bath rooms;
connections for bath rooms, _continued_; examples of poor
practice; roughing work ready for test; testing of plumbing
systems; method of continuous venting; continuous venting for
two-floor work; continuous venting for two lines of fixtures on
three or more floors; continuous venting of water closets;
plumbing for cottage house; construction for cellar piping;
plumbing for residence, use of special fittings; plumbing for
two-flat house: plumbing for apartment building, plumbing for
double apartment building; plumbing for office building;
plumbing for public toilet rooms; plumbing for public toilet
rooms, _continued_; plumbing for bath establishment; plumbing
for engine house, factory plumbing, automatic flushing for
schools, factories, etc.; use of flushing valves; urinals for
public toilet rooms; the Durham system, the destruction of pipes
by electrolysis; construction of work without use of lead;
automatic sewage lift; automatic sump tank; country plumbing;
construction of cesspools; septic tank and automatic sewage
siphon; water supply for country house; thawing of water mains
and service by electricity; double boilers; hot water supply of
large buildings; automatic control of hot-water tank;
suggestions for estimating plumbing construction. 407 octavo
pages, fully illustrated by 57 full-page engravings. Third,
revised and enlarged edition, just issued. Price =$4.00=

