
=Standard Practical Plumbing.= By R. M. STARBUCK.

A complete practical treatise of 450 pages, covering the subject
of Modern Plumbing in all its branches, a large amount of space
being devoted to a very complete and practical treatment of the
subject of Hot Water Supply and Circulation and Range Boiler
Work. Its thirty chapters include about every phase of the
subject one can think of, making it an indispensable work to the
master plumber, the journeyman plumber, and the apprentice
plumber, containing chapters on: the plumber's tools; wiping
solder; composition and use; joint wiping; lead work; traps;
siphonage of traps; venting; continuous venting; house sewer and
sewer connections; house drain; soil piping, roughing; main trap
and fresh air inlet; floor, yard, cellar drains, rain leaders,
etc.; fixture wastes; water closets; ventilation; improved
plumbing connections; residence plumbing; plumbing for hotels,
schools, factories, stables, etc.; modern country plumbing;
filtration of sewage and water supply; hot and cold supply;
range boilers; circulation; circulating pipes; range boiler
problems; hot water for large buildings; water lift and its use;
multiple connections for hot water boilers; heating of radiation
by supply system; theory for the plumber; drawing for the
plumber. Fully illustrated by 347 engravings. Price =$3.00=


~RECIPE BOOK~


=Henley's Twentieth Century Book of Recipes, Formulas and Processes.=
Edited by GARDNER D. HISCOX.

The most valuable Techno-chemical Formula Book published,
including over 10,000 selected scientific, chemical,
technological, and practical recipes and processes.

This is the most complete Book of Formulas ever published,
giving thousands of recipes for the manufacture of valuable
articles for everyday use. Hints, Helps, Practical Ideas, and
Secret Processes are revealed within its pages. It covers every
branch of the useful arts and tells thousands of ways of making
money, and is just the book everyone should have at his command.

