Modern in its treatment of every subject that properly falls
within its scope, the book may truthfully be said to present the
very latest formulas to be found in the arts and industries, and
to retain those processes which long experience has proven
worthy of a permanent record. To present here even a limited
number of the subjects which find a place in this valuable work
would be difficult. Suffice to say that in its pages will be
found matter of intense interest and immeasurably practical
value to the scientific amateur and to him who wishes to obtain
a knowledge of the many processes used in the arts, trades and
manufacture, a knowledge which will render his pursuits more
instructive and remunerative. Serving as a reference book to the
small and large manufacturer and supplying intelligent seekers
with the information necessary to conduct a process, the work
will be found of inestimable worth to the Metallurgist, the
Photographer, the Perfumer, the Painter, the Manufacturer of
Glues, Pastes, Cements, and Mucilages, the Compounder of Alloys,
the Cook, the Physician, the Druggist, the Electrician, the
Brewer, the Engineer, the Foundryman, the Machinist, the Potter,
the Tanner, the Confectioner, the Chiropodist, the Manicurist,
the Manufacturer of Chemical Novelties and Toilet Preparations,
the Dyer, the Electroplater, the Enameler, the Hat Maker, the
Ink Manufacturer, the Optician, the Farmer, the Dairyman, the
Paper Maker, the Wood and Metal Worker, the Chandler and Soap
Maker, the Veterinary Surgeon, and the Technologist in general.

A mine of information, and up-to-date in every respect. A book
which will prove of value to EVERYONE, as it covers every branch
of the Useful Arts. Every home needs this book; every office,
every factory, every store, every public and private
enterprise--EVERYWHERE--should have a copy. 800 pages. Price
=$3.00=

WHAT IS SAID OF THIS BOOK:

"Your Twentieth Century Book of Recipes, Formulas, and Processes
duly received. I am glad to have a copy of it, and if I could
not replace it, money couldn't buy it. It is the best thing of
the sort I ever saw." (Signed) M. E. TRUX, Sparta, Wis.

