"There are few persons who would not be able to find in the book
some single formula that would repay several times the cost of
the book."--_Merchants' Record and Show Window._

"I purchased your book, 'Henley's Twentieth Century Book of
Recipes, Formulas and Processes,' about a year ago and it is
worth its weight in _gold_."--WM. H. MURRAY, Bennington, Vt.

"ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST USEFUL BOOKS"

"Some time ago I got one of your 'Twentieth Century Books of
Formulas,' and have made my living from it ever since. I am
alone since my husband's death with two small children to care
for and am trying so hard to support them. I have customers who
take from me Toilet Articles I put up, following directions
given in the book, and I have found everyone of them to be
fine."--MRS. J. H. MCMAKEN, West Toledo, Ohio.


~RUBBER~


=Rubber Hand Stamps and the Manipulation of India Rubber.= BY T. O'CONOR
SLOANE.

This book gives full details on all points, treating in a
concise and simple manner the elements of nearly everything it
is necessary to understand for a commencement in any branch of
the India Rubber Manufacture. The making of all kinds of Rubber
Hand Stamps, Small Articles of India Rubber, U. S. Government
Composition, Dating Hand Stamps, the Manipulation of Sheet
Rubber, Toy Balloons, India Rubber Solutions, Cements,
Blackings, Renovating, Varnish, and Treatment for India Rubber
Shoes, etc.; the Hektograph Stamp Inks, and Miscellaneous Notes,
with a Short Account of the Discovery, Collection and
Manufacture of India Rubber, are set forth in a manner designed
to be readily understood, the explanations being plain and
simple. Including a chapter on Rubber Tire Making and
Vulcanizing; also a chapter on the uses of rubber in Surgery and
Dentistry. 3rd Revised and Enlarged Edition. 175 pages.
Illustrated =$1.00=


~SAWS~


=Saw Filing and Management of Saws.= By ROBERT GRIMSHAW.

A practical hand-book on filing, gumming, swaging, hammering,
and the brazing of band saws, the speed, work, and power to run
circular saws, etc. A handy book for those who have charge of
saws, or for those mechanics who do their own filing, as it
deals with the proper shape and pitches of saw teeth of all
kinds and gives many useful hints and rules for gumming,
setting, and filing, and is a practical aid to those who use
saws for any purpose. Complete tables of proper shape, pitch,
and saw teeth as well as sizes and number of teeth of various
saws are included. 3rd Edition, Revised and Enlarged.
Illustrated. Price =$1.00=

