
~STEAM ENGINEERING~


=American Stationary Engineering.= By W. E. CRANE.

This book begins at the boiler room and takes in the whole power
plant. A plain talk on every-day work about engines, boilers,
and their accessories. It is not intended to be scientific or
mathematical. All formulas are in simple form so that any one
understanding plain arithmetic can readily understand any of
them. The author has made this the most practical book in print;
has given the results of his years of experience, and has
included about all that has to do with an engine room or a power
plant. You are not left to guess at a single point. You are
shown clearly what to expect under the various conditions; how
to secure the best results; ways of preventing "shut downs" and
repairs; in short, all that goes to make up the requirements of
a good engineer, capable of taking charge of a plant. It's plain
enough for practical men and yet of value to those high in the
profession.

A partial list of contents is: The boiler room, cleaning
boilers, firing, feeding; pumps, inspection and repair;
chimneys, sizes and cost; piping; mason work; foundations;
testing cement; pile driving; engines, slow and high speed;
valves; valve setting; Corliss engines, setting valves, single
and double eccentric; air pumps and condensers; different types
of condensers; water needed; lining up; pounds; pins not square
in crosshead or crank; engineers' tools; pistons and piston
rings; bearing metal; hardened copper; drip pipes from cylinder
jacket; belts, how made, care of; oils; greases; testing
lubricants; rules and tables, including steam tables; areas of
segments; squares and square roots; cubes and cube root; areas
and circumferences of circles. Notes on: Brick work; explosions;
pumps; pump valves; heaters, economizers; safety valves; lap,
lead, and clearance. Has a complete examination for a license,
etc., etc. 3rd Edition. 345 pages, illustrated. Price =$2.00=


=Engine Runner's Catechism.= By ROBERT GRIMSHAW.

