
=Horsepower Chart.=

Shows the horsepower of any stationary engine without
calculation. No matter what the cylinder diameter of stroke, the
steam pressure of cut-off, the revolutions, or whether
condensing or non-condensing, it's all there. Easy to use.
accurate, and saves time and calculations. Especially useful to
engineers and designers. Price =50 Cents=


~STEAM HEATING AND VENTILATION~


=Practical Steam, Hot-Water Heating and Ventilation.= By A. G. KING.

This book is the standard and latest work published on the
subject and has been prepared for the use of all engaged in the
business of steam, hot-water heating, and ventilation. It is an
original and exhaustive work. Tells how to get heating
contracts, how to install heating and ventilating apparatus, the
best business methods to be used, with "Tricks of the Trade" for
shop use. Rules and data for estimating radiation and cost and
such tables and information as make it an indispensable work for
everyone interested in steam, hot-water heating, and
ventilation. It describes all the principal systems of steam,
hot-water, vacuum, vapor, and vacuum-vapor heating, together
with the new accelerated systems of hot-water circulation,
including chapters on up-to-date methods of ventilation and the
fan or blower system of heating and ventilation. Containing
chapters on: I. Introduction. II. Heat. III. Evolution of
artificial heating apparatus. IV. Boiler surface and settings.
V. The chimney flue. VI. Pipe and fittings. VII. Valves, various
kinds. VIII. Forms of radiating surfaces. IX. Locating of
radiating surfaces. X. Estimating radiation. XI. Steam-heating
apparatus XII. Exhaust-steam heating. XIII. Hot-water heating.
XIV. Pressure systems of hot-water work. XV. Hot-water
appliances. XVI. Greenhouse heating. XVII. Vacuum vapor and
vacuum exhaust heating. XVIII. Miscellaneous heating. XIX.
Radiator and pipe connections. XX. Ventilation. XXI. Mechanical
ventilation and hot-blast heating. XXII. Steam appliances.
XXIII. District heating. XXIV. Pipe and boiler covering. XXV.
Temperature regulation and heat control. XXVI. Business methods.
XXVII. Miscellaneous. XXVIII. Rules, tables, and useful
information. 367 pages, 300 detailed engravings. 2nd
Edition--Revised. Price =$3.00=

