
=Five Hundred Plain Answers to Direct Questions on Steam, Hot-Water,
Vapor and Vacuum Heating Practice.= By ALFRED G. KING.

This work, just off the press, is arranged in question and
answer form; it is intended as a guide and text-book for the
younger, inexperienced fitter and as a reference book for all
fitters. This book tells "how" and also tells "why". No work of
its kind has ever been published. It answers all the questions
regarding each method or system that would be asked by the steam
fitter or heating contractor, and may be used as a text or
reference book, and for examination questions by Trade Schools
or Steam Fitters' Associations. Rules, data, tables and
descriptive methods are given, together with much other detailed
information of daily practical use to those engaged in or
interested in the various methods of heating. Valuable to those
preparing for examinations. Answers every question asked
relating to modern Steam, Hot-Water, Vapor and Vacuum Heating.
Among the contents are: The Theory and Laws of Heat. Methods of
Heating. Chimneys and Flues. Boilers for Heating. Boiler
Trimmings and Settings. Radiation. Steam Heating. Boiler,
Radiator and Pipe Connections for Steam Heating. Hot Water
Heating. The Two-Pipe Gravity System of Hot Water Heating. The
Circuit System of Hot Water Heating. The Overhead System of Hot
Water Heating. Boiler, Radiator and Pipe Connections for Gravity
Systems of Hot Water Heating. Accelerated Hot Water Heating.
Expansion Tank Connections. Domestic Hot Water Heating. Valves
and Air Valves. Vacuum Vapor and Vacuo-Vapor Heating. Mechanical
Systems of Vacuum Heating. Non-Mechanical Vacuum Systems. Vapor
Systems. Atmospheric and Modulating Systems. Heating
Greenhouses. Information, Rules and Tables. 200 pages, 127
illustrations. Octavo. Cloth. Price =$1.50=


~STEEL~


=Steel: Its Selection, Annealing, Hardening, and Tempering.= By E. R.
MARKHAM.

This work was formerly known as "The American Steel Worker," but
on the publication of the new, revised edition, the publishers
deemed it advisable to change its title to a more suitable one.
It is the standard work on Hardening, Tempering, and Annealing
Steel of all kinds. This book tells how to select, and how to
work, temper, harden, and anneal steel for everything on earth.
It doesn't tell how to temper one class of tools and then leave
the treatment of another kind of tool to your imagination and
judgment, but it gives careful instructions for every detail of
every tool, whether it be a tap, a reamer or just a
screw-driver. It tells about the tempering of small watch
springs, the hardening of cutlery, and the annealing of dies. In
fact, there isn't a thing that a steel worker would want to know
that isn't included. It is the standard book on selecting,
hardening and tempering all grades of steel. Among the chapter
headings might be mentioned the following subjects:
Introduction; the workman; steel; methods of heating; heating
tool steel; forging; annealing; hardening baths; baths for
hardening; hardening steel; drawing the temper after hardening;
examples of hardening; pack hardening; case hardening; spring
tempering; making tools of machine steel; special steels; steel
for various tools; causes of trouble; high-speed steels, etc.
400 pages. Very fully illustrated. Fourth edition. Price =$2.50=

