Translated from the German and edited by M. G. S. Swallow. The
book is essentially practical and discusses turbines in which
the full expansion of steam passes through a number of separate
turbines arranged for driving two or more shafts, as in the
Parsons system, and turbines in which the complete expansion of
steam from inlet to exhaust pressure occurs in a turbine on one
shaft, as in the case of the Curtis machines. It will enable a
designer to carry out all the ordinary calculation necessary for
the construction of steam turbines, hence it fills a want which
is hardly met by larger and more theoretical works. Numerous
tables, curves and diagrams will be found, which explain with
remarkable lucidity the reason why turbine blades are designed
as they are, the course which steam takes through turbines of
various types, the thermodynamics of steam turbine calculation,
the influence of vacuum on steam consumption of steam turbines,
etc. In a word, the very information which a designer and
builder of steam turbines most requires. Large octavo, 214
pages. Fully illustrated and containing eighteen tables,
including an entropy chart. Price, net =$3.50=


~WATCH MAKING~


=Watchmaker's Handbook.= By CLAUDIUS SAUNIER.

No work issued can compare with this book for clearness and
completeness. It contains 498 pages and is intended as a
workshop companion for those engaged in watch-making and allied
mechanical arts. Nearly 250 engravings and fourteen plates are
included. This is the standard work on watch-making. Price
=$3.00=


~WELDING~


=Automobile Welding with the Oxy-Acetylene Flame.= By M. KEITH DUNHAM.

Explains in a simple manner apparatus to be used, its care, and
how to construct necessary shop equipment. Proceeds then to the
actual welding of all automobile parts, in a manner
understandable by every one. _Gives principles never to be
forgotten._ Aluminum, cast iron, steel, copper, brass, bronze,
and malleable iron are fully treated, as well as a clear
explanation of the proper manner to burn the carbon out of the
combustion head. This book is of utmost value, since the
perplexing problems arising when metal is heated to a melting
point are fully explained and the proper methods to overcome
them shown. 167 pages, fully illustrated. Price =$1.00=

