
The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sign of the Four, by Arthur Conan Doyle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Sign of the Four

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Release Date: March, 2000 [EBook #2097]
Last updated: September 2, 2019

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SIGN OF THE FOUR ***





cover




The Sign of the Four

by Arthur Conan Doyle



Contents


I.	 The Science of Deduction
II.	 The Statement of the Case
III. In Quest of a Solution
IV.	 The Story of the Bald-Headed Man
V.	 The Tragedy of Pondicherry Lodge
VI.	 Sherlock Holmes Gives a Demonstration
VII. The Episode of the Barrel
VIII. The Baker Street Irregulars
IX.	 A Break in the Chain
X.	 The End of the Islander
XI.	 The Great Agra Treasure
XII. The Strange Story of Jonathan Small



Chapter I
The Science of Deduction

Sherlock Holmes took his bottle from the corner of the mantel-piece and
his hypodermic syringe from its neat morocco case. With his long,
white, nervous fingers he adjusted the delicate needle, and rolled back
his left shirt-cuff. For some little time his eyes rested thoughtfully
upon the sinewy forearm and wrist all dotted and scarred with
innumerable puncture-marks. Finally he thrust the sharp point home,
pressed down the tiny piston, and sank back into the velvet-lined
arm-chair with a long sigh of satisfaction.

Three times a day for many months I had witnessed this performance, but
custom had not reconciled my mind to it. On the contrary, from day to
day I had become more irritable at the sight, and my conscience swelled
nightly within me at the thought that I had lacked the courage to
protest. Again and again I had registered a vow that I should deliver
my soul upon the subject, but there was that in the cool, nonchalant
air of my companion which made him the last man with whom one would
care to take anything approaching to a liberty. His great powers, his
masterly manner, and the experience which I had had of his many
extraordinary qualities, all made me diffident and backward in crossing
him.

