“The only unofficial detective?” I said, raising my eyebrows.

“The only unofficial consulting detective,” he answered. “I am the last
and highest court of appeal in detection. When Gregson or Lestrade or
Athelney Jones are out of their depths—which, by the way, is their
normal state—the matter is laid before me. I examine the data, as an
expert, and pronounce a specialist’s opinion. I claim no credit in such
cases. My name figures in no newspaper. The work itself, the pleasure
of finding a field for my peculiar powers, is my highest reward. But
you have yourself had some experience of my methods of work in the
Jefferson Hope case.”

“Yes, indeed,” said I, cordially. “I was never so struck by anything in
my life. I even embodied it in a small brochure with the somewhat
fantastic title of ‘A Study in Scarlet.’”

He shook his head sadly. “I glanced over it,” said he. “Honestly, I
cannot congratulate you upon it. Detection is, or ought to be, an exact
science, and should be treated in the same cold and unemotional manner.
You have attempted to tinge it with romanticism, which produces much
the same effect as if you worked a love-story or an elopement into the
fifth proposition of Euclid.”

“But the romance was there,” I remonstrated. “I could not tamper with
the facts.”

“Some facts should be suppressed, or at least a just sense of
proportion should be observed in treating them. The only point in the
case which deserved mention was the curious analytical reasoning from
effects to causes by which I succeeded in unraveling it.”

I was annoyed at this criticism of a work which had been specially
designed to please him. I confess, too, that I was irritated by the
egotism which seemed to demand that every line of my pamphlet should be
devoted to his own special doings. More than once during the years that
I had lived with him in Baker Street I had observed that a small vanity
underlay my companion’s quiet and didactic manner. I made no remark,
however, but sat nursing my wounded leg. I had a Jezail bullet through
it some time before, and, though it did not prevent me from walking, it
ached wearily at every change of the weather.

