“Had he any friends in town?”

“Only one that we know of,—Major Sholto, of his own regiment, the 34th
Bombay Infantry. The major had retired some little time before, and
lived at Upper Norwood. We communicated with him, of course, but he did
not even know that his brother officer was in England.”

“A singular case,” remarked Holmes.

“I have not yet described to you the most singular part. About six
years ago—to be exact, upon the 4th of May, 1882—an advertisement
appeared in the _Times_ asking for the address of Miss Mary Morstan and
stating that it would be to her advantage to come forward. There was no
name or address appended. I had at that time just entered the family of
Mrs. Cecil Forrester in the capacity of governess. By her advice I
published my address in the advertisement column. The same day there
arrived through the post a small card-board box addressed to me, which
I found to contain a very large and lustrous pearl. No word of writing
was enclosed. Since then every year upon the same date there has always
appeared a similar box, containing a similar pearl, without any clue as
to the sender. They have been pronounced by an expert to be of a rare
variety and of considerable value. You can see for yourselves that they
are very handsome.” She opened a flat box as she spoke, and showed me
six of the finest pearls that I had ever seen.

“Your statement is most interesting,” said Sherlock Holmes. “Has
anything else occurred to you?”

“Yes, and no later than to-day. That is why I have come to you. This
morning I received this letter, which you will perhaps read for
yourself.”

“Thank you,” said Holmes. “The envelope too, please. Postmark, London,
S.W. Date, July 7. Hum! Man’s thumb-mark on corner,—probably postman.
Best quality paper. Envelopes at sixpence a packet. Particular man in
his stationery. No address. ‘Be at the third pillar from the left
outside the Lyceum Theatre to-night at seven o’clock. If you are
distrustful, bring two friends. You are a wronged woman, and shall have
justice. Do not bring police. If you do, all will be in vain. Your
unknown friend.’ Well, really, this is a very pretty little mystery.
What do you intend to do, Miss Morstan?”

