We all followed him into the housekeeper’s room, which stood upon the
left-hand side of the passage. The old woman was pacing up and down
with a scared look and restless picking fingers, but the sight of Miss
Morstan appeared to have a soothing effect upon her.

“God bless your sweet calm face!” she cried, with an hysterical sob.
“It does me good to see you. Oh, but I have been sorely tried this
day!”

Our companion patted her thin, work-worn hand, and murmured some few
words of kindly womanly comfort which brought the colour back into the
other’s bloodless cheeks.

“Master has locked himself in and will not answer me,” she explained.
“All day I have waited to hear from him, for he often likes to be
alone; but an hour ago I feared that something was amiss, so I went up
and peeped through the key-hole. You must go up, Mr. Thaddeus,—you must
go up and look for yourself. I have seen Mr. Bartholomew Sholto in joy
and in sorrow for ten long years, but I never saw him with such a face
on him as that.”

Sherlock Holmes took the lamp and led the way, for Thaddeus Sholto’s
teeth were chattering in his head. So shaken was he that I had to pass
my hand under his arm as we went up the stairs, for his knees were
trembling under him. Twice as we ascended Holmes whipped his lens out
of his pocket and carefully examined marks which appeared to me to be
mere shapeless smudges of dust upon the cocoa-nut matting which served
as a stair-carpet. He walked slowly from step to step, holding the
lamp, and shooting keen glances to right and left. Miss Morstan had
remained behind with the frightened housekeeper.

The third flight of stairs ended in a straight passage of some length,
with a great picture in Indian tapestry upon the right of it and three
doors upon the left. Holmes advanced along it in the same slow and
methodical way, while we kept close at his heels, with our long black
shadows streaming backwards down the corridor. The third door was that
which we were seeking. Holmes knocked without receiving any answer, and
then tried to turn the handle and force it open. It was locked on the
inside, however, and by a broad and powerful bolt, as we could see when
we set our lamp up against it. The key being turned, however, the hole
was not entirely closed. Sherlock Holmes bent down to it, and instantly
rose again with a sharp intaking of the breath.

