By the table, in a wooden arm-chair, the master of the house was seated
all in a heap, with his head sunk upon his left shoulder, and that
ghastly, inscrutable smile upon his face. He was stiff and cold, and
had clearly been dead many hours. It seemed to me that not only his
features but all his limbs were twisted and turned in the most
fantastic fashion. By his hand upon the table there lay a peculiar
instrument,—a brown, close-grained stick, with a stone head like a
hammer, rudely lashed on with coarse twine. Beside it was a torn sheet
of note-paper with some words scrawled upon it. Holmes glanced at it,
and then handed it to me.

“You see,” he said, with a significant raising of the eyebrows.

In the light of the lantern I read, with a thrill of horror, “The sign
of the four.”

“In God’s name, what does it all mean?” I asked.

“It means murder,” said he, stooping over the dead man. “Ah, I expected
it. Look here!” He pointed to what looked like a long, dark thorn stuck
in the skin just above the ear.

“It looks like a thorn,” said I.

“It is a thorn. You may pick it out. But be careful, for it is
poisoned.”

I took it up between my finger and thumb. It came away from the skin so
readily that hardly any mark was left behind. One tiny speck of blood
showed where the puncture had been.

“This is all an insoluble mystery to me,” said I. “It grows darker
instead of clearer.”

“On the contrary,” he answered, “it clears every instant. I only
require a few missing links to have an entirely connected case.”

We had almost forgotten our companion’s presence since we entered the
chamber. He was still standing in the doorway, the very picture of
terror, wringing his hands and moaning to himself. Suddenly, however,
he broke out into a sharp, querulous cry.

“The treasure is gone!” he said. “They have robbed him of the treasure!
There is the hole through which we lowered it. I helped him to do it! I
was the last person who saw him! I left him here last night, and I
heard him lock the door as I came downstairs.”

