“Here’s a business!” he cried, in a muffled, husky voice. “Here’s a
pretty business! But who are all these? Why, the house seems to be as
full as a rabbit-warren!”

“I think you must recollect me, Mr. Athelney Jones,” said Holmes,
quietly.

“Why, of course I do!” he wheezed. “It’s Mr. Sherlock Holmes, the
theorist. Remember you! I’ll never forget how you lectured us all on
causes and inferences and effects in the Bishopgate jewel case. It’s
true you set us on the right track; but you’ll own now that it was more
by good luck than good guidance.”

“It was a piece of very simple reasoning.”

“Oh, come, now, come! Never be ashamed to own up. But what is all this?
Bad business! Bad business! Stern facts here,—no room for theories. How
lucky that I happened to be out at Norwood over another case! I was at
the station when the message arrived. What d’you think the man died
of?”

“Oh, this is hardly a case for me to theorise over,” said Holmes,
dryly.

“No, no. Still, we can’t deny that you hit the nail on the head
sometimes. Dear me! Door locked, I understand. Jewels worth half a
million missing. How was the window?”

“Fastened; but there are steps on the sill.”

“Well, well, if it was fastened the steps could have nothing to do with
the matter. That’s common sense. Man might have died in a fit; but then
the jewels are missing. Ha! I have a theory. These flashes come upon me
at times.—Just step outside, sergeant, and you, Mr. Sholto. Your friend
can remain.—What do you think of this, Holmes? Sholto was, on his own
confession, with his brother last night. The brother died in a fit, on
which Sholto walked off with the treasure. How’s that?”

“On which the dead man very considerately got up and locked the door on
the inside.”

“Hum! There’s a flaw there. Let us apply common sense to the matter.
This Thaddeus Sholto _was_ with his brother; there _was_ a quarrel; so
much we know. The brother is dead and the jewels are gone. So much also
we know. No one saw the brother from the time Thaddeus left him. His
bed had not been slept in. Thaddeus is evidently in a most disturbed
state of mind. His appearance is—well, not attractive. You see that I
am weaving my web round Thaddeus. The net begins to close upon him.”

