“But that is mere speculation,” said I.

“It is more than that. It is the only hypothesis which covers the
facts. Let us see how it fits in with the sequel. Major Sholto remains
at peace for some years, happy in the possession of his treasure. Then
he receives a letter from India which gives him a great fright. What
was that?”

“A letter to say that the men whom he had wronged had been set free.”

“Or had escaped. That is much more likely, for he would have known what
their term of imprisonment was. It would not have been a surprise to
him. What does he do then? He guards himself against a wooden-legged
man,—a white man, mark you, for he mistakes a white tradesman for him,
and actually fires a pistol at him. Now, only one white man’s name is
on the chart. The others are Hindoos or Mohammedans. There is no other
white man. Therefore we may say with confidence that the wooden-legged
man is identical with Jonathan Small. Does the reasoning strike you as
being faulty?”

“No: it is clear and concise.”

“Well, now, let us put ourselves in the place of Jonathan Small. Let us
look at it from his point of view. He comes to England with the double
idea of regaining what he would consider to be his rights and of having
his revenge upon the man who had wronged him. He found out where Sholto
lived, and very possibly he established communications with some one
inside the house. There is this butler, Lal Rao, whom we have not seen.
Mrs. Bernstone gives him far from a good character. Small could not
find out, however, where the treasure was hid, for no one ever knew,
save the major and one faithful servant who had died. Suddenly Small
learns that the major is on his death-bed. In a frenzy lest the secret
of the treasure die with him, he runs the gauntlet of the guards, makes
his way to the dying man’s window, and is only deterred from entering
by the presence of his two sons. Mad with hate, however, against the
dead man, he enters the room that night, searches his private papers in
the hope of discovering some memorandum relating to the treasure, and
finally leaves a momento of his visit in the short inscription upon the
card. He had doubtless planned beforehand that should he slay the major
he would leave some such record upon the body as a sign that it was not
a common murder, but, from the point of view of the four associates,
something in the nature of an act of justice. Whimsical and bizarre
conceits of this kind are common enough in the annals of crime, and
usually afford valuable indications as to the criminal. Do you follow
all this?”

