“Here is the old man,” said he, holding out a heap of white hair. “Here
he is,—wig, whiskers, eyebrows, and all. I thought my disguise was
pretty good, but I hardly expected that it would stand that test.”

“Ah, You rogue!” cried Jones, highly delighted. “You would have made an
actor, and a rare one. You had the proper workhouse cough, and those
weak legs of yours are worth ten pounds a week. I thought I knew the
glint of your eye, though. You didn’t get away from us so easily, You
see.”

“I have been working in that get-up all day,” said he, lighting his
cigar. “You see, a good many of the criminal classes begin to know
me,—especially since our friend here took to publishing some of my
cases: so I can only go on the war-path under some simple disguise like
this. You got my wire?”

“Yes; that was what brought me here.”

“How has your case prospered?”

“It has all come to nothing. I have had to release two of my prisoners,
and there is no evidence against the other two.”

“Never mind. We shall give you two others in the place of them. But you
must put yourself under my orders. You are welcome to all the official
credit, but you must act on the line that I point out. Is that agreed?”

“Entirely, if you will help me to the men.”

“Well, then, in the first place I shall want a fast police-boat—a steam
launch—to be at the Westminster Stairs at seven o’clock.”

“That is easily managed. There is always one about there; but I can
step across the road and telephone to make sure.”

“Then I shall want two stanch men, in case of resistance.”

“There will be two or three in the boat. What else?”

“When we secure the men we shall get the treasure. I think that it
would be a pleasure to my friend here to take the box round to the
young lady to whom half of it rightfully belongs. Let her be the first
to open it.—Eh, Watson?”

“It would be a great pleasure to me.”

“Rather an irregular proceeding,” said Jones, shaking his head.
“However, the whole thing is irregular, and I suppose we must wink at
it. The treasure must afterwards be handed over to the authorities
until after the official investigation.”

