Once more Captain John Richardson became absorbed in thought, and,
leaning back against the old oak beam which supported the porch, became
lost to his surroundings. So lost indeed that he failed to hear the
creak of the wicket, while his dim eye failed to see the youth who came
striding towards him. But a moment later, catching sight of the figure
screened amidst the creepers in the porch, the young fellow gave vent to
a shout which thoroughly awakened the sailor.

"Sitting in your usual place, Father, and keeping an eye upon every foot
of Southampton Water. Why, you are better even than the coast-guard, and
must know every ship which sails into or out of the docks."

"Ay, and the port from which she set out or to which she's bound in very
many cases," answered the captain with a smile, beckoning to his son to
seat himself beside him in the porch. "And talking of ships reminds me,
my lad, to broach a certain subject to you. A big overgrown fellow like
yourself, with calves and arms which would have been my admiration had I
possessed them when I was your age, should be doing something more than
merely amusing himself. You've the future to look to, your bread and
butter to earn, and how d'you mean to set about it? Come, every young
man should have his choice of a calling, though I think that his parent
or guardian should be at hand to aid him in his selection. What do you
propose to do?"

Captain Richardson once more leaned back against the oaken prop and
surveyed his son, while he slowly abstracted a match from a box which he
produced from a capacious pocket, and set a light to his pipe once more.

"Come, sonny," he continued, "in a couple of years you will be almost
a man, and you are as strong as many already. You were seventeen three
months ago, and since that date you have amused yourself without
hindrance from me. But your playtime must come to an end. Your father is
too poor to keep you longer at school, and has so little money that he
can give you nothing but his good wishes towards your future."

