For more than a minute there was silence in the porch, while Tyler
Richardson stared out across the neat stretch of turf at the dancing
water beyond, evidently weighing the words to which the captain had
given vent. That he was strong and sturdy no one could deny. This
was no little vanity on the part of his father, but a fact which was
apparent to any who glanced at the lad. Seated there with his cap
dangling from his fingers, and the sunlight streaming through the
creepers on to his figure, one saw a youth whose rounded features
bore an unmistakable likeness to those possessed by the captain. But
there the resemblance ceased altogether; for Tyler's ruddy cheeks
and sparkling eyes betokened an abundance of good health, while his
lithe and active limbs, the poise of his head, and the breadth of his
shoulders, showed that he was a young man who delighted in plenty of
exercise, and to whom idleness was in all probability irksome. Then,
too, there was an expression upon his face which told almost as plainly
as could words that he was possessed of ambition, and that though he had
at present nothing to seriously occupy his attention, yet that, once his
vocation was found, he was determined to follow it up with all eagerness.

"I know the matter troubles you, Dad," he said, suddenly turning to
his father, "and I know what difficulties there are. Were it not so
my answer would be given in a moment, for what was good enough for my
father is a fine profession for me. The wish of my life is to enter the
royal navy."

"And your father's also. If I saw some way in which I could obtain a
commission for you, why, my lad, you should have it to-morrow, but
there!" (And the captain held out his palms and shrugged his shoulders
to show how helpless he was.) "You know as well as I do that I cannot
move a finger to help you in that direction. I must not grumble, but
for all that, your father has been an unfortunate dog. I entered the
service as full of eagerness as a lad might well be. I was strong and
healthy in those days, and the open life appealed to my nature. Then
came an unlucky day; a round-shot, fired from one of the French forts
which our ships were blockading, struck me on the hip, fracturing the
bone badly. You are aware of this. I barely escaped with my life, and
for months remained upon the sick-list. Then, seeing that I was useless
upon a ship, the Lords of the Admiralty gave me a shore billet, and for
two years I struggled wearily to perform the work. But the old wound
crippled me, and was a constant source of trouble, so that in the end I
was pensioned off, and retired to this cottage to spend the remainder
of my life. I'm a worn-out hulk, Tyler, and that's the truth. Had I
remained on the active list I should no doubt have made many friends
to whom I could have applied at this moment. Perhaps even were I to
state the facts to the Admiralty they would find a commission for you,
but then my means are too small to equip you for the life, and you
would start so badly that your future might be ruined. But there is
Frank, your uncle, who lives at Bristol, and conducts a large trade
with foreign parts; we never had much in common, but for all that have
always been excellent friends, and on more than one occasion he has
suggested that you might go to him and take a post in his warehouse.
If that did not suit you, he would apprentice you to one of his ships,
and the life for which you long would be before you. There, I have told
you everything, and seeing that I cannot obtain a commission for you in
the royal navy, I urge upon you to consider your uncle's proposition
seriously. Who knows, it may mean a great future. He is childless, and
might select you as his successor; and, if not that, he would at least
push on your fortunes and interest himself on your behalf."

