Once more the old sea-captain leaned back in his seat and groped wearily
for his matches, while he fixed a pair of anxious eyes upon his son. As
for the latter, he still remained looking steadily out across the water,
as if searching for an answer from the numerous vessels which floated
there. At last, however, he rose to his feet and replaced the cap upon
his head.

"It's a big matter to settle," he said shortly, "and, as you say, I
had better consider it thoroughly. I'll give you my answer to-morrow,
Father, and I feel sure that I shall do as you wish. Every day I see
the necessity of doing something for my living, and as the navy is out
of the question I must accept the next best thing which comes along. I
should be an ungrateful beggar if I did not realize the kindness of my
uncle's offer, and if I decide to take advantage of it, you may be sure
that I shall do my best to please him in every particular. And now I
will get off to Southampton, for there is a big ship lying there which I
am anxious to see. She's full of grain, and hails from America."

Nodding to the captain, Tyler turned and strolled down the garden. Then,
placing one hand lightly upon the gate-post, he vaulted over the wicket
and disappeared behind a dense mass of hedge which hid the dusty road
from view. A moment or two later his father could hear him as he ran in
the direction of Southampton.

Half an hour later Tyler found himself amidst a maze of shipping, with
which the harbour was filled, and at once sought out the vessel of which
he had spoken. She was a big three-master, and lay moored alongside the
dock, with a derrick and shears erected beside her. A couple of gangways
led on to her decks, while a notice was slung in the rigging giving
warning to all and sundry that strangers were not admitted upon the ship.

A few minutes before Tyler arrived at his destination the stevedores had
knocked off work in order to partake of their dinner, whilst the hands
on board had retired to their quarters for the same purpose. In fact,
but for one of the officers, who strolled backwards and forwards on the
dock-side, the deck of the ship was deserted, and Tyler could have gone
on board without a soul to oppose him. But he knew the ways of shipping
people, for scarcely a day passed without his paying a visit to the
harbour. Indeed, so great was his love of the sea that during the last
three months he had spent the greater part of his time at the docks,
and, being a cheerful, gentle-mannered young fellow, had made many
friends amongst the officers and crew of the various vessels which had
put in there with cargoes for the port. Without hesitation, therefore,
he accosted the mate, who was strolling up and down upon the quay.

