He pointed to a perpendicular ladder which led from the upper hatch to
the one below, and stepped aside to allow the officers to approach it.
At the same moment Tyler caught the eye of the elder of the three naval
gentlemen, and at once, standing erect, he raised his hand as his father
had long since taught him to do.

"Ah, the correct salute, and I thank you for it!" said the officer,
acknowledging it swiftly. "Where did you learn it, my lad? I can see
that you have been taught by someone who was no landsman."

"My father, Captain Richardson, late of the royal navy, instructed me,
sir. He lives close at hand, and would spend his days here upon the
docks were it not that he is crippled and cannot get about."

"By a gun-shot wound--obtained in warfare?" asked the officer with
interest.

"Yes, sir. He was struck by a round-shot fired from a French fort, and
was pensioned from the service."

"That is sad, very unfortunate," said the officer; "but his son must
take his place, and repay the wound with interest when we have war
with France again. But I must see to this cargo. This is one of the
many duties which we sailors have to perform. At one time sailing a
three-master, and then conning one of the new steam-vessels which have
been added to our fleets. Another day we muster ashore, and then an
officer can never say what he may find before him. He may have to visit
the hospitals, the barracks, or inspect a delivery of hammocks before
it is divided amongst the men. To-day we are here to see this cargo of
grain, and to pass it if in good condition."

"Which it is, right away down to the keel, you guess!" burst in the
American mate. "Say, sir, there's the ladder, and if you'll excuse me,
the sooner the inspection's done with the sooner we'll clear the hold
and get away out to sea."

"Then oblige me by slipping down, Mr. Maxwell, and you too, Mr.
Troutbeck. Take one of those wooden spades with you, and turn the grain
over in every direction. Be careful to see that it is not mildewed or
affected by the damp. You can bring a specimen on deck for my benefit."

