Hastily saluting, the two officers who had been addressed sprang towards
the steep gangway which led below, and swarmed down it with an agility
which was commendable. Then they paused for a moment or two upon the
edge of the lower hatch until a wooden spade had been tossed to them,
when they leapt upon the glistening mass of grain which filled the hold.
Meanwhile Tyler and the officer who had remained above stood leaning
over the upper hatch, looking down upon the figures below. Indeed, the
former was fascinated, for the sight of a naval uniform filled him
with delight, while to be able to watch officers at their work was a
treat which he would not have missed for anything. It was queer to see
the way in which the younger of the two juniors tossed his cane aside
with a merry laugh and commenced to delve with the spade; and still
more quaint to watch the second as he thrust his two hands into the
corn, and, having withdrawn them filled to the brim, walked towards
the edge of the hatch with the intention of spreading the grains there
the better to inspect them. But--that was stranger still, for, missing
his footing, the officer gave a violent swerve, and with difficulty
saved himself from tumbling full length. The sight, the exclamation of
astonishment and disgust, brought a smile to Tyler's lips; but a second
later his expression changed to one of amazement. Why, the officer
had again all but lost his footing, and--yes, as Tyler stared down at
him, he staggered to one side, threw one hand up to his face, and then
collapsed in a heap, where he lay with hands and toes half-buried in
the corn. Almost at the same moment his companion, who had been digging
vigorously, let his spade drop from his fingers, and looked about him
as if dazed. Then he struggled towards his comrade with a low cry of
alarm, only to stumble himself and come crashing into the grain.

"There's something wrong down there!" shouted Tyler, realizing that
some terrible misfortune had suddenly and unexpectedly overtaken the
naval officers. "Look, sir, they are on their faces, and appear to be
insensible!"

