He tugged at the sleeve of the senior officer without ceremony, and
directed his attention to those below, for the former had been engaged
in conversation with the mate, and had not witnessed what had happened.

"Something wrong!" he exclaimed in astonishment. "Why, what could be
wrong? Ahoy, there, Troutbeck and Maxwell! Why, they are on their faces,
and, as I live, they are insensible!"

His amazement was so great that he stood there dumbfounded, and stared
at Tyler as though he could not believe his eyes. But a shout of alarm
from the mate quickly aroused him.

"It's the gas!" he cried in shrill anxious tones. "Quick, or they'll be
suffocated! Hi, for'ard there! All hands on deck to the rescue!"

He went racing towards the quarters in which the men were enjoying their
meal, leaving Tyler and the naval officer alone. As for the latter, his
astonishment was still so great that he remained rooted to the spot,
leaning over the hatchway, the combing of which he grasped with both
hands, whilst he stared down at the two prostrate figures huddled below
upon the corn as though the sight was too much for him. Then he suddenly
stood erect and screwed his knuckles into his eyes, as though he feared
that they were misleading him.

"Gas!" he murmured doubtfully. "What gas? How could there be such a
thing down there?" Then, suddenly recollecting the condition of his
juniors, and realizing that they were in the gravest danger, he sprang
towards the ladder which led to the hold below, and commenced to
descend it as rapidly as possible.

But Tyler was before him, for though dumbfounded at first at what was
beyond his comprehension, the shout to which the mate had given vent
had instantly caused him to understand the danger of the situation.
There was gas in the hold, some poisonous vapour unseen by those who
entered through the hatchway, but lying there floating over the corn
ready to attack any who might enter into the trap. What should he do?
The question flashed through his mind like lightning, and as quickly the
answer came.

