"We must get them out of it," he shouted hoarsely, "and by the quickest
way too. Hi, there, get hold of the winch and lower away!"

As in the case of the officer who had stood beside him, his first
thought had been to rush for the ladder, and to descend to the hatch
below by that means. But a quick glance at the figures lying half-buried
in the corn, and an instant's reflection, told him that rescue would
be difficult, if not impossible, in that way. For, supposing he leapt
from the lowest rung on to the cargo of grain, could he hope to be able
to lift one of the victims and carry him up the steep ladder which led
to safety? Such an attempt would require more than double the strength
which he possessed, and besides there was the deadly gas to be reckoned
with. Like a flash the thoughts swept through his brain, for Tyler was
a sharp young fellow, and ere another moment had passed his plan for
rescue was formed. Pointing to the winch, from which a stout rope ran
through a block attached to the boom above, and from thence dangled
down into the hold, he called to the mate, who now came running along
the deck with three of the hands, to get hold of the levers and prepare
to work upon them. Then, tearing his handkerchief from his pocket, he
hastily tied it round his face, fastening the knot behind his head as
tightly as possible, so that the thickest folds came across his mouth
and nostrils. A moment later he had grasped the rope which hung at one
side of the hatchway, and at once passed it around his waist. A rapid
hitch which his father had taught him secured it there, and a moment
later he had thrust himself over the hatchway and was swinging in
mid-air.

"Lower away!" he shouted, "and when you see me pass the loop round one
of them, hoist as fast as you can. Now, let her go!"

Grasping the length of rope which dangled beneath him, and which he
had been careful to leave, he tied it into a strong loop as the men
above lowered him into the hold. Then, holding it in both hands, he
awaited the moment when he should alight upon the corn. Ah! He was
there, and his feet were already sunk ankle-deep in the cargo. Then he
became aware of the fact that, though perfectly clear, the atmosphere
was stifling. He felt as though he were choking, for in spite of the
thick handkerchief about his face the biting gas seemed to fly into his
lungs, and at once set him coughing violently. But, determined not to be
beaten, he overcame the spasm, and, carefully holding his breath, moved
towards one of the prostrate figures.

