It was no easy matter to pass the loop around the helpless man, but
Tyler worked vigorously at the task. Placing the coil of rope upon the
corn close to the feet of one of the officers, he held it there with one
toe, and at once grasped the man by the ankles. A lusty heave brought
him sliding along through the grain, and scarcely three seconds had
passed before the loop was about his body and securely fastened beneath
his arms.

"Hoist!" he endeavoured to shout, but his muffled face and the choking
gas deadened the words. But for all that, his wishes were clear to those
above, who stood staring over the hatchway, for Tyler stood erect and
waved eagerly to them. There was a shout, the rope tautened, and then at
first slowly, and afterwards with a rush which showed that willing hands
were at the winch, Tyler and the officer for whose rescue he had so
gallantly descended were hoisted out of the hold. With a swing the boom
was brought towards the side, a couple of men rushed at the dangling
figures, and ere the naval officer who witnessed the scene had time to
give the hoarse command, "Lower away!" the two were lying upon the deck,
while the mate of the freight-ship was eagerly removing the loop from
the figure of the unconscious officer. As for Tyler, he sat for a short
space as if dazed, while he gasped and struggled for his breath. But
the knowledge that one victim still remained below, that a second life
was at stake, roused him to energy. With a shiver which he could not
suppress in spite of every effort, he struggled to his feet and dashed
at the hatchway.

"Lower again!" he managed to call out between the paroxysms of coughing
which shook him. "Now, let go!"

There was no doubt that the real danger, the urgency of the situation,
was impressed upon all who were helping in the rescue; and it did not
need the frantic gestures and husky words of command of the elderly
naval officer to stimulate the hands to rapid action. By now, too,
some fifteen men had assembled, and while a few promptly carried the
unconscious officer aside, and set about to restore his animation, the
remainder at once leapt to the winch, and set the handles whirling
round at such a pace that the rope and its burden were swiftly at their
destination. At the same instant the American mate swung himself on to
the ladder and went swarming down till he reached the deck below, where
he remained ready to lend assistance should he be called for. And well
was it that he did so, for that stifling gas well-nigh overcame Tyler
in his work of rescue. Holding his breath as he had done before, the
latter dashed towards the second prostrate figure once he had obtained
a foothold. Then, following the same tactics, he placed the loop in
position and grasped the man by his ankles.

