"Heave! Pull ho!" As if the words would help the gallant young fellow
below, the anxious watchers above gave vent to them, their shouts
increasing almost to shrieks of encouragement in their eagerness.
"Heave! He's almost through. Once more, and you will have him in
position. Ah! he's down!"

A feeling of consternation and dismay suddenly silenced the voices, and
a crowd of eager, anxious faces hung over the hatchway, while a couple
of volunteers sprang at the ladder.

"Stand aside!" shouted one of them huskily, a big, raw-boned American
sailor. "The lad's down, and we're not the boys to stand here looking on
and see him die. Say, maties, pitch me the end of the rope, and I'll go
in for him!"

Swiftly descending the ladder, he had almost reached the deck below, and
was looking eagerly about him for the expected rope, when another voice
reached the ears of the onlookers.

"Easy there! I'm nearest the spot, and I'll pull them out, whatever the
cost. Jim Bowman, you can make a turn about your body with the rope, and
stand ready if there's need. I'm for it right away as I am."

Stuffing a bulky red handkerchief between his teeth, the mate glanced
swiftly at his comrade to see that the words were fully understood. Then
with a bound he leapt over the low combing of the hatchway, and alighted
on the piled-up corn.

"He'll do it! He's the right man to tackle the business! Stand ready,
boys!"

Those above stared down at the scene below with eyes which threatened to
burst from their sockets, so great was each one's eagerness. And all the
while, as the plucky mate tugged at the prostrate figure of the officer,
they sent hoarse shouts echoing down into the hold. Breathlessly they
watched as the loop slipped upwards till it encircled the body, and then
a dozen lusty individuals rushed towards the winch, ready to lend a hand
should those already stationed there prove too weak for the task.

"Hoist!" The big American, who stood on the lower deck, bellowed the
command so loudly that it was heard far away along the dock "Hoist
smartly, boys!"

