"Feel steady?" he asked. "A bit shaky, I've no doubt, but another sip
and a little water on your head will put you right. Here, one of you
lads give a hand and we'll take him to the nearest pump."

There was a group of sailors standing around watching Tyler with
interested eyes, and instantly a number sprang forward to support him.
Then with faltering steps, and gait which would have caused him to reel
from side to side had it not been for their help, they led him across
the dock to a shed some little distance away. A pump was erected beside
it, and before many seconds had passed a stream of ice-cold water was
gushing from the spout into the trough below.

"Now, off with his coat and shirt, and one of you boys hop right along
to fetch him a towel," cried the big American, who happened to form one
of the party. "Slick's the word, my lad, and back with it smartly. Here,
stand right aside, and let me hold on to the youngster."

A big, muscular arm was put around Tyler's tottering figure, and he
was deftly placed in such a position as would enable the water to flow
upon his head and shoulders. Gush! It came surging from the pump at the
handle of which one of the men worked vigorously, and in a little while
Tyler was glad to withdraw with dripping head and face, gasping for
breath with almost as much energy as had been the case after his first
ascent from the hold. Then a towel was thrown over his shoulders, and
willing hands set to work to dry him.

"Feel more like yourself, eh? Just bring along that comb, sonny, and
we'll fix him up, proper," said the American. "Now, on with your shirt
and coat, and where's the boy that's holding on to his cap?"

Their friendly attentions almost bewildered Tyler, for he was unused
to them, and, in fact, at another time would have blushed for shame at
finding himself treated so much like a child. But in spite of the cold
douche to his head he still felt dizzy. His brain swam with the effects
of the choking gas, which had been given off by the cargo of corn, while
huge black spots seemed to float dreamily about in the air and disturbed
his vision. Then, too, though he manfully endeavoured to keep his figure
erect, his legs would tremble in spite of himself, while his knees shook
and knocked together in a manner which threatened to bring him headlong
to the ground.

