"I'm a baby!" he managed to gasp in tones of vexation. "Just fancy a
fellow of my age not being able to stand up alone!"

The thought distressed him so greatly that once again he made a futile
effort to remain on his feet, only to find himself in much the same
helpless condition. Then a biscuit-box was placed beneath him, and he
sat down with a feeling of relief.

"Baby! No sich thing, let me tell you, sir!" exclaimed the big American
indignantly. "You're just shook up, and that's the truth of it, for I
reckon that that 'ere gas wur strong enough to upset a Red Injun, and
much more a chap of your constitootion. Jest you sit tight and hold on
to your tongue while we pour a few drops of this stuff down yer throat.
Baby! Ho!"

With a shake of his head the big sailor turned to one of his comrades
and took from him a cracked glass containing a dark and evil-smelling
liquid.

"Up with your chin," he said, placing the glass to Tyler's lips. "Now,
down with this at a gulp."

Obedient to the order, Tyler opened his mouth and swallowed the draught.
Then he shivered again, for the spirit was strong and pungent. But in
spite of its nasty flavour, and of the uncomfortable sense of burning
which it left in his throat, he was bound to confess that the draught
did wonders for him. Indeed, scarcely five minutes were gone before
strength came back to his legs, while his brain and eyes seemed to
have cleared wonderfully. A pat on the back from the big hand of the
American encouraged him to stand again, and with a gay laugh he found
himself on his feet.

"That's better!" he exclaimed in cheery tones. "What's become of the
officers?"

"I reckon they're jest like you, a trifle shook up and put out, don't
yer know," was the answer. "Yer must understand, young fellah, that chaps
can't go right down into a hold what's full of that gas without feeling
mighty bad. You've all had a near squeak for yer lives, I reckon, and ef
it hadn't er been for you, young shaver, them two officers would have
been awaiting their funeral right now. I tell yer, me and the other
covies is jest hoping to make yer acquaintance. We'd be proud to get
hold of yer fingers, and, Jehoshaphat! as soon as you're well we hope to
do it. Now, will yer come aboard and take a sleep in one of our bunks,
to drive the muddle out of yer head, or will yer go slick away home?
Jest say the word, and we'll help you, whatever's the case."

