"One moment, please. I desire to speak to this young gentleman," called
someone from outside the circle, and as the sailors sprang aside the
naval officer who had already befriended Tyler entered the circle and
grasped the latter warmly by the hand.

"You are more yourself now," he said with a friendly smile, "and I
can therefore speak to you as I would have done half an hour ago
had you been in a fit condition to listen to me. On behalf of the
two young officers, whose lives you so gallantly saved, I thank you
from the bottom of my heart. The deed was a noble one, for, seeing
their insensible figures lying in that poisonous hold below, you,
like everyone else, must have realized instantly the great risk to be
incurred by attempting their rescue. The warning which the mate gave
told you that gas lay below the hatchway, and that it had been the cause
of striking down my officers. In spite of that you rushed to help them,
and I must admit that the promptness of your action, the remarkable
rapidity with which you took in the situation and formed your plans,
filled me with amazement. To be candid, I myself was so dumbfounded
and taken aback that I stood there helpless. But then, you see, I am no
longer a young man, and have lost that keenness with which the junior
members of my service are invariably filled.

"Now that I come to look into the facts carefully it is a matter of
surprise to me that you did not rush to the ladder the instant you
realized the necessity for action. But how could you possibly have
rescued either of those unfortunate fellows by that means? Obviously two
men at least would have been required for the task. You saw that, and
at once decided upon an easier and more effective plan. No one could
have made his preparations more completely or more rapidly. Your loops
were made in a sailor-like manner which does credit to your father's
teaching. For the rest, I am too full of gratitude to you to say much
at this moment. Your courage and resolution have delighted me and I
congratulate you most heartily."

