Placing one hand upon Tyler's shoulder the officer grasped his fingers
eagerly with the other, and squeezed them in a manner which showed
better than words how much his feelings were aroused. Indeed he might
have remained there for many minutes, patting Tyler gently upon the
back meanwhile, had it not been for the enthusiastic sailors who stood
around, and who had without exception pressed eagerly forward to hear
what he had to say. Seeing his final action, however, at once reminded
them of their own decision, expressed by their burly comrade, who once
more came to the front.

"You'll excuse us, Admiral," he said with a slouching salute, "but like
you we're firm set on shaking. Say, young fellow, we're proud to know
yer."

Unabashed by the presence of an officer of such seniority in the navy,
they crowded forward, and each in turn grasped the blushing Tyler by
the hand. Then, as if that had been insufficient to satisfy them, they
tossed their caps high in the air, and gave him three rousing cheers.

"There," said the officer, lifting his hands as soon as the shout had
died down, "like myself you have shown your appreciation; and now, if
you will leave this young gentleman to me, I will see that he is taken
home. Come," he continued, turning to Tyler with a smile, "you are still
shaken and feel the effects of that poisonous gas. It will be as well
if you return to your father, and rest for the remainder of the day.
Hail a conveyance, my lads, and tell the man to drive right on to the
dock, for we must not allow this young man to walk too much at present.
Yes, those are the doctor's orders, and I am here to see that they are
strictly enforced," he went on, as Tyler directed an appealing glance
towards him. "Fortunately for you and my two officers, one of our ship's
surgeons happened to be passing as you were hauled up from the hold,
and he was able to attend to you at once. Seeing that you were coming
round he left you in my hands and devoted all his care to the others,
who were in a very grave condition. They, too, I am thankful to say,
have regained consciousness, so that I no longer feel anxiety on their
behalf. Permit me, young gentleman, here is the conveyance."

