Taking Tyler by the arm, he led him to a fly which had just driven up,
and having ushered him in, took the remaining vacant seat himself.

"Drive to Captain John Richardson's," he called out, and then resumed
his conversation with Tyler, telling him as they went that the mate of
the American ship, who had pluckily helped in the rescue, had suffered
no ill effects. Half an hour later, much to the astonishment of the
captain, who still sat in his porch keeping watch upon the long strip of
water which ebbed before his cottage, a conveyance came rolling along
the main Portsmouth road, and halted just opposite the wicket which
gave access to his garden. At once his spy-glass went to his eyes, for
he was somewhat short-sighted, and his amazement was profound when he
discovered Tyler walking towards him, looking pale and shaky, and arm in
arm with a gray-headed naval officer. Had it not been for his shattered
hip he would have risen to his feet to greet the new-comer, for naval
officers seldom or never came his way. As he had said when speaking to
his son, he was a poor old hulk, doomed to live in that out-of-the-way
spot, forgotten or unknown by men who might have been his comrades had
ill-luck not assailed him. In his excitement, the clay pipe and box
of matches went tumbling to the ground, where the former smashed into
a hundred pieces. Then the old instincts of discipline came back to
him and he lifted his hand to his cap with all the smartness he could
command.

It was fine to see the way in which this stranger approached the
captain. Halting there for one moment, and drawing himself stiffly
erect, he returned the salute swiftly. Then he sprang forward and
greeted the old sailor effusively.

"Proud to meet you, Captain Richardson!" he exclaimed. "Delighted to
make your acquaintance, and to know the father of this gallant young
fellow. But, surely we have met before? Richardson? Tell me, sir, when
did you enter the service?"

"Forty years ago the fifth of November next. Midshipman aboard the
flag-ship _Victory_, bound from Portsmouth for the Mediterranean. And
you?"

