"An old ship-mate of yours or I much mistake?" exclaimed the officer
with eagerness. "Don't you remember Davies--Tom Davies, of the
_Victory_--my first commission too. Why, of course you do. A year after
I joined I was drafted into another ship, and so we were separated, and
have remained so until this moment."

"And I remained aboard for five solid years," burst in the captain
enthusiastically, his face all aglow at the recollection of his earlier
days. "Then I was transferred to the _Bellerophon_, and again to another
ship. We cruised in the East, and many's the brush we had with rascally
slave-dealers. Then came war with France, and, returning to home waters,
we coasted along the enemy's country, popping in here and there to
survey the forts, and dropping upon any vessels that we could come
across. At Brest we were under a heavy fire, and that, sir, was the
time when the rascals winged me with a shot. It broke me up, and as a
consequence of the wound I was laid aside for good in this old cottage."

As the two spoke they still gripped hands, while tears of excitement and
happiness streamed down the sunken cheeks of the captain. Poor fellow!
It was joy indeed to him to meet a comrade after all these years, and
still greater happiness to find himself conversing with a man still
upon the active list of the service to which he had belonged. For many
years now he had occupied that cottage, and owing to the wound which
had crippled him had seldom moved beyond the garden. Occasionally the
old salt who lived with him, and acted as his only servant, placed him
tenderly in a wheeled chair, and took him for an airing. But Southampton
was beyond his reach, and Portsmouth utterly out of the question, and
so it had fallen out that the captain had on very few occasions met
with officers of the royal navy. A few who had retired lived in the
neighbourhood, but they were active men, able to get about, and seldom
dropped in for a chat at the cottage. Therefore this unexpected visit,
the meeting with a man who had skylarked with him when they were lads,
roused him out of his melancholy, and raised his spirits to the highest.

