Seating himself beside Captain Richardson, Admiral Davies,--for that
was the rank to which the officer had attained,--conversed with him in
animated tones for more than half an hour, telling him of the rescue
from the hold, and of the gallant conduct of his son.

"I am thankful that it occurred to me to visit the shipping myself," he
said. "As a rule two officers would have been considered sufficient for
the task, and it is most unusual for one of my rank to undertake such
a duty. However, on this occasion I felt bound to go, for the Lords
of the Admiralty are trying an experiment. The greater part of their
flour is home-grown, but prices are high, and England is not a large
corn-growing country. For that reason cargoes have been ordered from
America, and when the ships arrive a careful inspection of the grain
is necessary. Had that not been the case I should have remained in my
office, for I am in charge of the station, and thereby should have lost
this opportunity of renewing our friendship. But about your son; have
you decided what to do with him? He is a fine young fellow, and would
look well in naval uniform."

"And he himself longs for the life," exclaimed the captain. "Though I
myself had the worst of fortune in the service, and in spite of the
fact that their lordships have not treated me too well, I still think
that there is nothing like a commission in Her Majesty's fleet. But it
is out of the question, for to obtain a nomination nowadays influence
is required, and also I have not the means to supply the proper outfit.
The lad would be miserable, for he would not have a sixpence to jingle
in his pocket, and would have the mortification of living with comrades
who were better off than himself. And besides, he is too old. To have
obtained a commission I should have applied three or four years ago. Now
he is seventeen, and almost a man."

"In pluck and resolution he is at any rate," said the admiral warmly,
"and he deserves far more than words of thanks for his gallant action
of this morning. Now listen to me. I like the lad, and, as in your
case, I too am devoted to the navy. I have by chance come across a
young fellow eminently fitted for the service, and I shall not stand
aside and allow Her Majesty to lose the opportunity of obtaining such
a suitable young officer. As your son he has a claim on the Admiralty,
and when I describe to their lordships the manner in which he rescued
two of my officers they will at once waive all question of his age,
and I feel sure will promptly appoint him to a ship. But influence, as
you very truly say, is necessary to push a young man on in the world.
I do not mean that a midshipman cannot fight his way upwards without
friends, for that has been done on scores of occasions; but it gives a
lad a better chance if he is put under the eye of some commander who
will take an interest in him. Then he will get opportunities of special
duties, and if he is a smart lad he may distinguish himself. Will you
leave the matter in my hands, and trust to me to do the best for him? I
would take him myself, as I have a decided interest in him, but then, as
I have told you, I have a shore billet, and his duties would give him
but few chances of promotion. He must be appointed to a ship cruising in
foreign waters, and he must be placed under an officer who is a friend
of my own. There will be no difficulty about the matter, for one of the
rescued officers happens to be of excellent family, and a son of one of
the sea-lords. He will see to it that the commission is granted, and
I have little doubt that within a few weeks I shall be able to return
to you with the information that your son is appointed to the China
squadron, and under the friendly wing of Keppel, a smart young officer
with whom I am well acquainted. There, say no more, for I see that you
fully agree. Good-bye for the present! I shall hope to have the pleasure
of calling again."

