Rising from his seat the admiral squeezed the captain's hand, and then,
having gone through the formality of saluting, an act of courtesy which
pleased his host vastly, he walked with Tyler towards the gate, one hand
placed affectionately on his shoulder.

It would be impossible to describe the delight and happiness with which
each inhabitant of the tiny cottage was filled at the good news which
the admiral had brought. Captain Richardson could scarcely contain
himself for joy, and but for the hip which crippled him would have
strutted about the place puffed up with pride at the action of his son.
As for Tyler, the prospect of a commission was so fascinating and so
absolutely unexpected that he felt in a whirl, and, finding conversation
impossible, snatched at his cap and went bounding along the great main
road.

A month later, as the captain occupied his accustomed seat in the porch
of the cottage, a cloud of dust and the clatter of wheels attracted his
attention in the direction of Southampton, and instantly up went his
spy-glass, one hand steadied the end, and he looked casually to see what
might have caused it; for to this poor crippled officer anything, each
conveyance which passed, was of interest, and served to brighten the
long days. He was familiar with each of the coaches which drove along
the main road, the drivers in every case saluting him with their whips
as they came rattling by, and no doubt turning the next moment to the
passengers seated upon the box to describe the old salt who occupied the
cottage. On this occasion, however, it was no coach which had given rise
to the cloud of dust, but a smaller conveyance, at the sight of which
the captain was thrown into a condition of excitement.

"There's not more than one which passes here in a week," he said, "and
for that reason I am sure that that will be the admiral. Tyler! Tyler!
Where are you? Just run down to the gate and be ready to meet him."

It proved to be the admiral, as he had prophesied, and within a little
while that officer was standing before him, greeting him with a hearty
shake of the hand, and looking at him with a smile the sereneness of
which told that he had been successful. Behind him stepped the same two
officers who had been rescued from the hold, and these at once came
forward to be introduced. Then they turned to Tyler and gripped his hand
in a manner which showed their gratitude.

