"For you," said the admiral, suddenly producing a long blue envelope,
and handing it to Tyler. "I will save you the trouble of reading it by
telling you that you have been given a commission, and that orders are
enclosed within for you to sail without delay for the China station.
Your post will be on H.M.S. _Dido_, and your commander will be the
Honourable Henry Keppel, Captain in the Royal Navy. And now, if you will
kindly show my officers over the garden, I will discuss a little matter
with your father.

"I have more to say," he went on, addressing Tyler's father, when
the three had moved away, "and my news, I hope, will give you great
pleasure. When I left you I went straight to those in authority and
represented matters as I had found them. They agreed with me that it
was a scandal and a shame that an officer should be treated as you have
been. I pointed out that your pension was insufficient, with the result
that it has been largely increased, and will enable you to reside, if
you wish it, in a more populated district. Another point, you can now
see your way to giving your son a small allowance, and so putting him
upon an equal footing with his comrades. Then, too, I propose to help,
for I am a single man, and my pay is of ample dimensions. I have taken
a liking to the lad, and I mean to push his fortunes to the utmost.
And now let us consider the question of his outfit, which must be
gone into immediately. He will require uniform suited to this climate
and also to the China seas, and must be equipped as well as the most
fortunate of youngsters. That, again, I shall make my business if you
have no objections, for you must recollect that you cannot easily see
to the matter yourself, and, besides, it would gratify me to be allowed
to provide all that is necessary. Unfortunately it turns out that no
ship belonging to our fleets is bound for the East at this moment, and
therefore Tyler will have to make the passage in a merchantman. But that
will do no harm, for it will give him an opportunity of getting used to
the sea, and will prepare him for his coming duties."

