"Quite so," gasped the invalid captain, scarcely able to believe the
good words to which he had been listening, or to understand the sudden
change in his fortunes. "But he is no landlubber, let me tell you,
Admiral, for he has hosts of friends in these parts, and during the
holidays has often put to sea for quite a week at a time. He can splice
and knot, for Tom Erskine, the old pensioner who acts as my servant, has
taught him thoroughly. But how can I thank you?"

"Thank the lad, my dear Captain. Tyler is the one to whom you must show
your gratitude, and I, too, feel indebted to him; for had it not been
for his gallant action you and I would still have remained ignorant of
one another, though living separated by but a mile or two. Think of the
yarns we shall have together, and of the tales of our boyhood's days
which we shall be able to spin. You must come and live close into the
town, and I know of a little house there which would suit you admirably,
for it is posted high up, and there is a sheltered seat before it from
which a more extensive view even than this can be obtained. There
is many an old sailor living there who will be delighted to come in
and smoke a pipe with you, and instead of sitting here alone for the
greater part of every day you will find that you have a new and happier
life before you; for you are a man who loves companionship, and in
Southampton you will make many a friend.

"And now to complete this matter, for we have very little time in which
to delay. Sit here and think quietly about the question of the house,
and let me know in a couple of days or more, when I return to visit you.
Meanwhile I will take Tyler to my quarters, and will see to his outfit.
Let him come for a week, which will give sufficient time to the tailors
to try on the various garments. Then he can return to you, and can spend
the remainder of his time in England at home."

It wanted very little persuasion on the part of the admiral to convince
Captain Richardson that he had made a staunch friend, who was acting for
his and Tyler's benefit. And therefore he placed no difficulty in the
way of the latter's proposed visit to Southampton, but instead at once
shouted for him.

