"The admiral has kindly asked you to go into the town with him for a
week," he called out. "Run to your room at once, like a good fellow, and
pack your best clothes into a bag, for you must remember that you are
now a Queen's officer and must dress becomingly."

Half an hour later the admiral and the two officers who had accompanied
him to the cottage took their leave of Captain Richardson, and having
been joined by Tyler, crowded into the hackney-coach which had conveyed
them from the town of Southampton, and went trundling away along the
road. Behind them they left the captain, jubilant at the good fortune
which had suddenly come to him and his son, and eagerly looking forward
to the change before him. No longer was he troubled by the question of
Tyler's future, for now that was thoroughly settled. Then, again, the
long dreary winter, which had usually dragged by miserably for him,
was likely to prove in the coming months the happiest he had spent for
many a year; for he would certainly leave this out-of-the-way spot, to
which ill-health and inadequate income had fixed him, and would make
his future home in Southampton, where he would be within easy reach
of any who cared to show their friendship. In addition he would have
the patronage of Admiral Davies, and that, together with the fact that
they had been shipmates together in their earlier days, would secure a
number of acquaintances--and, with such a man as Captain Richardson was,
acquaintanceship would lead to certain and lasting friendships. Yes,
the prospect was a bright one, and on that day, as the old white-headed
sailor sat back in the porch, pipe and spy-glass in hand, and the old
familiar scene before him, he felt that he was about to commence another
existence altogether; he looked younger, the sunken cheeks seemed to
have filled out a little, whilst the eyes sparkled in an unusual manner.
Indeed, so alluring was the future that the captain remained at his
post long after the hackney-coach had reached its destination, and only
retired within the cottage when night was falling. Then, seated in his
cosy parlour, he took up the _Navy List_ and looked up the names of a
few of his old comrades and that of the officer under whose command
Tyler was to be.

