"Yes," he murmured, "the lad will have every opportunity, for I have
heard of Captain Keppel, and everyone agrees that he is a dashing and
distinguished officer."

When Tyler returned to the cottage a week later his father scarcely
recognized the spruce young fellow who came walking through the garden
towards him, for our hero had now discarded civilian clothes and was
dressed in a blue uniform which suited him admirably. Behind him he had
left in the admiral's quarters his sea-chest and a very complete outfit
with which his generous friend had provided him. In addition, he came
primed with the information that he was to sail at the end of three
weeks, and that his destination was to be Singapore, where the _Dido_
would eventually put in to victual.

The remaining days of his stay in England were extremely busy ones, for,
once Admiral Davies had taken an interest in any matter, he was not
the man to permit of delay. Indeed, within a very few hours of Tyler's
return he drove up in a hackney-coach prepared for the reception of the
invalid, with a comfortable couch and thick soft cushions stretched
between the seats. On this Captain Richardson was gently placed, and
the trio at once drove to the house which the admiral had selected
as a likely residence. Arrived there, the captain was carried to the
sheltered seat of which mention had been made, and was then shown the
interior of the dwelling.

"It will do splendidly!" he exclaimed with enthusiasm as they returned
to the cottage. "For, thanks to my increased income, I shall easily be
able to pay the rent demanded by the agent. Then, again, the furniture
in the cottage will be sufficient to fill the rooms, while outside there
is a garden which with Tom's help will produce all the vegetables that
we require. But more than all, the sheltered seat commands a view up and
down the Water, and from it I can see not only the ships sailing there,
but can look right into the harbour, while the Portsmouth road stretches
like a white ribbon clearly before me, and my own seat in the porch is
under view. No doubt on many a day in the future I shall fix my glass
upon it, and bear in mind the times when a poor old crippled sailor
sat there forlorn and eager for friends. If it can be arranged I will
change houses before Tyler starts; and there should be no difficulty in
the matter, for the cottage is held on a monthly tenancy, while the
residence in Southampton is ready and waiting for me."

