Accordingly notice was promptly given to the owner of the cottage,
while certain necessary decorations and repairs were made to the new
house. Then a large van arrived, to which, under the admiral's friendly
superintendence, the goods and chattels belonging to the captain
were transferred, while that individual was once more put into the
hackney-coach and driven to temporary quarters in the town. A few days
later he was settled in his new residence, and when Tyler set sail
from the harbour _en route_ to Plymouth, where he was to embark upon a
merchantman bound for Singapore, he had the satisfaction of knowing that
his father was in comfortable surroundings, with many friends at hand.
Standing by the after-rail he steadied himself against it and fixed the
spy-glass, with which he had been presented by the officers whom he
had rescued, upon the sheltered corner high up in the town. There was
the old crippled captain, his gaze directed through his glass at the
vessel which bore his son away. That he realized the fact of Tyler's
presence there upon the poop was evident, for as the latter snatched
at his cap and waved it about his head, the old sailor dragged a huge
red handkerchief from his breast-pocket and let it blow out in the
breeze. Thus did father and son take leave of one another, the former to
commence a life of happiness to which he had been too long a stranger,
and the latter to cross the sea, where many adventures were to befall
him.




CHAPTER III

Preparing for a Journey


Six days had passed, from the date when Tyler Richardson set out from
Southampton and dropped down to the open sea, before he reached Plymouth
Harbour, for the vessel upon which he had sailed had met with contrary
winds, and was much delayed. However, arrive he did at last at the busy
port, to find the _Alice Mary_ on the point of departure. Indeed, as
Tyler ascended the gangway, followed closely by his chest, the bell
was ringing loudly to warn friends and relatives to leave, while the
blue-peter at the fore showed that all was in readiness. Sailors were
running about the decks in obedience to the orders of the captain, while
passengers stood about in every position, hampering the movements of
the men, as they looked towards the shore and waved their hands and
handkerchiefs. A few of the gentlemen were smoking placidly on the poop,
as though departure from England on a long voyage was nothing out of
the ordinary, while elsewhere some of the ladies were weeping bitterly
at the thought of leaving. Tyler threaded his way amongst them, and
having seen the cabin which he was to occupy, and deposited his smaller
belongings there, he returned to the deck and looked on at the scene
with interest.

