"A big muddle it all looks, does it not?" said a voice at his elbow,
and, turning swiftly, he became aware of the fact that one of the
passengers, a tall, bearded gentleman, stood beside him with a pleasant
smile of greeting upon his face.

"But it will all settle down within a few hours," went on the stranger,
without waiting for Tyler's answer, "and, bless you! we shall all feel
perfectly at home before we are much older. In fact, within a week we
shall be the best of friends, and, I doubt not, shall feel as though we
had known one another all our lives. By the end of the voyage some of us
will have made such excellent companions that we shall be loth to part,
while a few, wearied by the monotony of the long passage, will have
squabbled. That is often the ending of a trip like this. But, pardon me,
my name is Beverley, and I am for Singapore. May I ask your destination?"

Tyler at once told him, and then the two fell into conversation, which
lasted until the ship had warped out of the harbour and was steering
for the sea. Then they separated to go to their cabins, only to find
that they were to share the same. And so it happened that throughout the
voyage, which lasted for three months, they were continually together,
and became the fastest of friends.

"And so you, like myself, are bound for Singapore," said Mr. Beverley
two months after the _Alice Mary_ had sailed from Plymouth; "and you
tell me that you are likely to join the _Dido_ there. I think that you
will be fortunate if you do so, for I happen to be well informed as to
the movements of the ships, and I know that the vessel of which we speak
is at present in the China Sea, engaged on a special mission, and is
not likely to return to Singapore until late next year. Consequently
you will either have to remain kicking your heels at the latter place,
or you will have to tranship and go aboard the first merchantman bound
for Hong-Kong. Now let me tell you of my plans. I am engaged by the
Government to go to the island of Borneo, with a view to obtaining
information as to its products. At the same time I have other people's
interests in hand, for I am travelling for a firm of rubber merchants
who are seeking a new field from which to obtain their supplies. Once
before I was in the Eastern Archipelago, and on that occasion I obtained
experience which will be of great value to me and which will help me on
my journey. But you may wonder why I am troubling you so much with my
own affairs, and for that reason I will explain. I told you that the
_Dido_ was in the China seas, and was not likely to reach Singapore
for many months. But I did not say what was also in my knowledge,
namely that Captain Keppel has been ordered to return by way of the
archipelago, where he is to do his best to exterminate the pirates, who
are very numerous and infest the islands. Now, supposing you sailed to
Hong-Kong and missed the _Dido!"_

