"It would be very disappointing," exclaimed Tyler, "and in that case I
should scarcely be able to report myself before a year had passed."

"Quite so! but if there was news at Singapore that the _Dido_ was
already on her way, but would be delayed in the neighbourhood of Borneo,
how would you care for a trip to the island yourself, with the hope that
you might have the fortune to join her there?"

"Nothing I should like better!" burst in Tyler eagerly. "With you, do
you mean?"

"That is my proposition. I want a comrade to accompany me, and if he
is an officer in the British navy, all the better, for the power of
England is known in Borneo, and your uniform would command respect on
the coast. In the interior it would be a different matter, for there the
Dyak tribes have probably never seen a white man. Indeed I hear that
the country has never been explored, but rumours which have reached us
through the Malays tell how the tribes within are for the most part
fierce and warlike, and spend their time in attacking one another,
often with the sole object in view of obtaining the heads of their
enemies. But to return to my proposition. I have known you now so long
that I feel sure that we should be capital friends. As I have said, I
want a companion, while you desire to join your ship. Her destination
is the coast of Borneo, while I also am bound in that direction. If on
arrival at Singapore you find it unwise to proceed to China, and can
obtain permission from the authorities, will you join me, in the hope of
falling in with the _Dido?_ There will be no expense, but I can promise
you a trip which you may never have another opportunity of taking."

"It would be grand, and there is nothing that I should like more, Mr.
Beverley," cried Tyler with eagerness. "Of course I know nothing about
this Eastern Archipelago, and indeed did not know that I was bound in
that direction until a very few days before leaving England. I am sure
that the excursion would, as you say, be most fascinating, and I will
join you with the greatest pleasure if the authorities will allow me to
do so."

