"Then I think that there will be no difficulty, though I am uncertain at
the present moment to whom your request should be made. I am aware that
there is a resident governor at Singapore, but whether the Admiralty
has a representative is another matter. In any case I should go with
you, and should show my orders, which would command some amount of
influence; then again, in six weeks' time, when we hope to arrive at our
destination, those at Singapore will be able to tell us more about the
_Dido_, and will be able to say whether she is then in the China seas
or whether she is shortly due at the port. We must be guided by their
report, though I think that you will find that your ship is on her way
to Borneo, and to the islands thereabout. That being the case, we shall
promptly get sanction for you to join me, and as soon as we have made
the necessary preparations shall set sail. As for the latter, I propose
to purchase a small sailing schooner, and fit her up with a quantity
of muskets and a couple of six-pounder guns, for our journey will take
us into a part where the pirates from Sarebus abound, and they will
think nothing of pouncing upon us. However, if they see that we are
fully prepared, they will be more inclined to leave us alone, while,
should they be bold enough to attack us, we shall, I hope, beat them
handsomely, for we shall carry a crew of Malays, besides an interpreter.
But how is it that you obtained your commission? You are decidedly over
the age when youngsters are admitted to the navy, and as you have never
broached the subject yourself I have not ventured to open it for fear
of seeming curious. However, should you care to tell me I should be most
interested to hear."

Thus invited to give an account of his adventure at the docks, Tyler did
not hesitate to describe the latter in full, and to tell Mr. Beverley
how Admiral Davies had come forward to help the family.

"It was done on the spur of the moment," he said, as if in excuse for
his action, when referring to the rescue. "You see, there were the two
officers insensible, a shout from the mate told us clearly that gas was
the cause of the mishap, and, of course, after that the only thing to do
was to get them out as rapidly as possible."

