"That may be so, Tyler, my lad," responded Mr. Beverley warmly, "but
I tell you that, though the need for rescue was apparent, there are
many who would have stood there on the deck wringing their hands and
incapable of giving active help. That's just where you came to the fore,
and it must have been solely due to your promptness that those officers
are alive to-day to tell the tale. I am glad that you have won your
commission in such a manner, and I prophesy that your promotion will be
rapid, for you are about to serve under a very distinguished officer,
and will come to him with a character which will at once command his
respect and approval. If he sees that you are level-headed and a hard
worker he will no doubt give you many an opportunity of showing your
worth. But it's time for dinner, and we had better go below and dress.
Later on we can discuss the question of this trip to Borneo more
completely. At the present moment it is sufficient for me to know that
I have obtained the services of a young fellow who will be a companion,
and who, moreover, will be of great assistance should it ever be our
fortune to get into a tight corner."

Five weeks later the _Alice Mary_ sighted the Island of Sumatra, and,
having passed through the Malacca Strait, made for the harbour of
Singapore. Tyler and Mr. Beverley, having seen their baggage landed,
at once went to an hotel, the latter promptly despatching a note to the
governor to ask for an appointment. Then they walked about the town for
an hour, to find on their return that an answer had arrived requesting
them to attend at the residency immediately.

"Glad to meet you," said the governor cordially, as they were ushered
into his room. "I am aware of your proposed expedition, Mr. Beverley,
for I have had orders to help you as much as possible. Advices also
have reached me with the information that Mr. Richardson would come
here with the object of joining H.M.S. _Dido;_ but I fear that there is
disappointment before him, for a brig which arrived last week came with
the news that the ship in question had left Hong-Kong recently in search
of the pirates in the neighbourhood of Borneo, and also to forward, if
possible, the work of an ardent philanthropist, by name James Brooke.
I fear that our young friend will have to remain in idleness for many
weeks, unless, of course, he receives orders to proceed to some other
port in the Archipelago."

