"Which would exactly suit him, sir," exclaimed Mr. Beverley, who at once
proceeded to tell the governor of the proposal which he had made to
Tyler.

"It sounds an excellent plan to keep him out of mischief," was the
answer, given with a smile, "and I am sure that the voyage would be
most instructive for a young fellow such as he is. As to the necessary
permission, I can give you that on the spot, for there is not a single
representative of the royal navy in port at this moment. I will write
a letter, which he can carry with him, stating that as the _Dido_ is
not likely to put in an appearance for some little time, and is in all
probability cruising in the neighbourhood of Borneo, this officer is to
proceed there with you on the distinct understanding that he is to join
the _Dido_ as soon as he obtains news of her precise whereabouts. That
will smooth all possible difficulties, will it not?" he went on with a
pleasant smile, seating himself at the desk which stood in the room,
and making ready to write. "If questions are asked as to why he did
not remain here, he has only to produce the letter; while again, should
it turn out that by going with you the date of his joining is delayed
longer than it would have been had he remained at Singapore, why, my
written orders will clear him from all reprimand."

Taking a piece of official paper, the governor hastily scrawled some
lines on it and stamped it at the bottom. Then he enclosed the letter in
an envelope and sealed it with wax.

"There," he said, handing it to Tyler, "may you have a very pleasant
trip! and when you fall in with the _Dido_ just be so good as to give my
compliments to her commander. For you, Mr. Beverley, I trust that your
journey into the interior may lead to a favourable report, for I myself
am deeply interested in the island, and in Mr. James Brooke, whose
name I have already mentioned to you. I met him here, where he stayed
quite recently, refitting his vessel, the _Royalist_, and I had the
opportunity of many a conversation with him. He has the interests of the
Dyaks and inhabitants of Borneo Proper at heart, and for that purpose he
has sailed a second time for Sarawak. I fear that he will encounter many
difficulties and dangers, and that it will be long before he meets with
real success. But excuse me, I am very busy to-day, and there are many
others waiting to speak with me."

