Extending his hand the governor bade them farewell, and ushered them out
of his room, promising to help them in their preparations if they should
be in need of assistance. As for Tyler and his friend, they returned to
the hotel, and began to discuss the preparations to be made before their
departure.

"We shall require special clothes, of course," said the latter, "and
I think that corduroy breeches and high boots, and a strong but thin
linen jacket, will be necessary. A light sun-hat, which will retain its
position on the head when the wearer is moving actively, must form part
of the outfit, and in addition a cloak of heavy material must be taken,
for in Borneo scarcely a night passes without rain, often amounting to
a heavy downpour, from which we must be protected. Indeed, my experience
of these regions has taught me that a white man rapidly falls a victim
to ague if he is exposed to much damp and cold. We must try to keep
fever at arm's-length, and as a precaution I shall take with me an
abundance of quinine, besides other drugs and surgical necessaries. A
spare suit, with flannel shirts, and a supply of foot-gear, will meet
our requirements, and will allow us to turn our attention to another
portion of the outfit.

"Now about guns. I have already told you that I shall carry a supply on
board the schooner which I propose to purchase, but I shall also obtain
the best of weapons for ourselves, and in any case we shall carry with
us a pair of heavy revolvers. Don't think that I am inclined to be
pugnacious," he went on with a smile, "but there is nothing like being
fully prepared. We may, and I'm sure I hope that we shall, pass amongst
these tribes without molestation, but there is no saying for certain,
and it will do no harm to let the Dyaks see that we are well armed. But
I hope to win them over by presents, and for that purpose I shall take
with me bales of beads and coloured cotton, besides looking-glasses, and
cheap knick-knacks. A few instruments for the preservation of specimens
will be necessary; and last, but by no means least, it will be desirable
if you bring a suit of uniform, to be worn on state occasions.

