"And now for a vessel in which to sail. As we have little time to spare,
I propose that we leave for the docks at once and go to a shipping
agent. If there is anything in the port likely to prove serviceable he
is certain to have knowledge of the craft, and will be able to give us
particulars."

Issuing from the hotel once more, Tyler and Mr. Beverley walked through
the town, passing scores of natives of every hue and colour as they
went. Indeed, Singapore, like many another Eastern seaport, is noted for
its cosmopolitan population; and as they threaded their way through the
sunlit streets, Malays, Chinese, Hindoos from India, and many another
native from adjacent parts, jostled one another. Europeans also were
to be seen in abundance, but for the most part these were driving in
light carriages, or were mounted upon ponies. To Tyler the scene was
particularly fascinating, for he had never been in the East before, and
as he walked along, his eye noted with admiration the lithe and graceful
figures of the Malays, and the stolid, heavily-built appearance of the
Chinese.

"Yes, John Chinaman looks dull and uninteresting," remarked Mr.
Beverley, "but note his prosperity. He has found that his own native
land is filled to overflowing, and that competition is too severe, and
in consequence has emigrated. I have met him in divers parts, for he is
to be found in large numbers in the Straits Settlements, in Borneo, and
other islands in this archipelago. He has also found his way to North
America and to Australia, and everywhere he is prosperous. A hard worker
from his earliest days, and almost always contented with his lot, he
can feed himself upon the smallest wage, and still save sufficient for
a rainy day. Then in the course of years he becomes his own master, the
employer of labour, and a wealthy citizen of whatever town he has made
his home. But we must hurry on, for there is much to settle before we
set sail for Borneo."

Half an hour later they stood upon the dock-side looking with admiration
at a tiny schooner which lay moored in the basin, floating daintily upon
the water.

