"The last can be easily managed, but an interpreter would be a
difficulty, for you want an intelligent man, and they are few amongst
these natives. But wait--it suddenly occurs to me that I know the very
person to suit you. How would a Dutchman do?"

"Provided he was honest, and had no particular failing, there is no
reason why he should not suit me," replied Mr. Beverley thoughtfully. "I
admit that I am not charmed with the race of Dutchmen which I have met
in the islands of the Archipelago, for they are indolent, and many of
them, I fear, cruel in their treatment of the natives. But some were
excellent fellows, and there is no reason why this man should not prove
the same. Who is he, and how comes it that he is here in Singapore?"

"That is a question which I am unable to answer," was the agent's reply.
"I only know that he is here in search of employment, for I am the man
who is supposed to know everything in this town. His own tale is that
he comes from Java, and that he is here for his health. He is quiet and
well-behaved, and, I should judge, some thirty years of age, I remember
that he told me that he had been in Borneo, and could understand the
Dyaks. But I will send him to call upon you, and you can form your own
opinion of the man."

Having settled the matter in this way, and promised to be at the quay
by daylight on the following morning, Tyler and his friend returned
to their hotel, and having drawn out a list of articles which they
considered useful, they sallied into the town once more and set about
making their purchases. A week later their preparations were complete,
the schooner had been tried and approved of, and duly bought. Then,
thanks to the agent, a crew was easily found, while provisions were
to be had in abundance. A Chinese gunsmith had supplied the necessary
weapons, and had himself mounted the two six-pounders upon the deck.

"We will sail to-morrow at noon," said Mr. Beverley as he and Tyler
retired to their hotel that evening. "I think that all our preparations
are completed, and I feel that everything is most satisfactory. Our
crew are sturdy, well-built fellows, while John Marshall promises to
be a treasure. Of Hanns Schlott, our Dutch interpreter, I can say very
little, for it is difficult to understand him. He is quiet and reserved,
and never speaks unless he is addressed. But I have hopes that he will
prove a good companion."

