Mr. Beverley said the last few words with hesitation, and then lapsed
into a thoughtful silence, which Tyler did not venture to interrupt.
But a few minutes later he turned to our hero sharply and asked him a
question.

"What is your own opinion?" he demanded somewhat curtly. "How do you
like the man?"

"I scarcely know," was Tyler's doubtful answer, "and I do not care to
say anything now which may prove wrong in the end. But, honestly, I
do not trust him. He has a hang-dog expression, and if you notice, he
never looks one steadily in the face. Then again I do not admire his
companions."

"Companions! Why, he describes himself as being friendless," exclaimed
Mr. Beverley with some surprise. "Surely you are mistaken. Where have
you seen him in company with other men?"

"On three separate occasions I have caught sight of him in close
conversation with a rascally-looking fellow who has the appearance
of being partly Dutch and partly Malay. I must say that I also was
astonished, and watched them for some little while until they boarded
a native craft which lay out in the basin. She sailed yesterday, but
I said nothing about the matter, as I did not wish to prejudice you.
Still, I thought it strange, and determined to mention the matter after
we had set sail."

For some considerable time there was silence between the two, both being
occupied with their thoughts. As for Tyler, he was bound to confess to
himself that he had taken an instant dislike to the Dutchman, and felt
uneasy at the prospect of his company. But then it was not his business
to interfere, for this was Mr. Beverley's expedition, and besides, even
though Hanns Schlott failed to please him, he would be one amongst many,
and could do no harm even though he might desire to be troublesome.

"Hum! It is strange that I too have had the same feeling about this
man," said Mr. Beverley. "But, for fear of doing him an injustice, I
failed to mention it. But I was not altogether satisfied with him,
and had it not been for the fact that it is absolutely necessary that
we should carry an interpreter, and that a suitable man was hard to
obtain, I should never have accepted his services. However, he is
engaged, and must accompany us, though I shall be careful to keep my eye
upon him. Now let us turn out into the town for a walk. After to-morrow
there will be little opportunity of taking exercise."

