Early on the following morning all was bustle above and below the deck
of the tiny schooner. John Marshall, the young fellow who had been
engaged as boatswain, was busily handling his native crew in a manner
which showed that he was a thorough sailor. Obedient to his orders,
which were given in quiet but resolute tones which commanded instant
attention, the Malays were stowing water-barrels in the hold, while
a portion of the crew were laying out the sails in preparation for
hoisting. Right aft, seated upon the six-pounder which was mounted
there, was a short, thick-set individual, dressed in slouching clothes
and wearing a broad felt hat upon his head. His cheeks were sallow and
flabby, and his whole face was destitute of colour, save for a few black
bristles upon his chin. Of moustache he had absolutely none, and his
head had been cropped so close that it seemed to be entirely bald. With
the brim pulled down over a pair of narrow, slit-like eyes, he sat there
gazing vacantly at nothing, while he puffed lazily at an enormous pipe,
now and again lifting his head to watch the smoke as it circled about
him. Not once did he make a movement to help those on board, and even
when Tyler and Mr. Beverley stood close beside him, tugging laboriously
at an enormous case of ammunition, he did not venture to stir or lend a
hand in the task. Instead, he lounged there as though he had quite made
up his mind that his work would begin later on, and that here, at any
rate, there was no call for the interpreter to the expedition to exert
himself.

"Hanns Schlott is a ne'er-do-well, I fear," whispered Mr. Beverley a few
minutes later, whilst he and Tyler were in the hold. "For the last hour
he has sat there idly, looking at nothing in particular, and lifting not
a finger to help those who are to be his comrades. I fear that he will
prove unsuitable, and if only I had a good excuse, and could be certain
of replacing him instantly, I would pay him a portion of the wages
agreed upon and dismiss him. But then a substitute is not to be found,
so that we must make the best of matters as they are and trust to things
improving in the future."

