Consoling themselves with this reflection, they stowed the ammunition
safely and then returned on deck. By now all was in readiness for
departure, and the tiny hatch of which the schooner alone boasted having
been battened down, the order was given to hoist the sails. Then the
rope which secured her to the moorings was cast off, and the dinghy, by
means of which the operation was performed, having been attached to a
ring-bolt at the stern, the little vessel swung round, and, careening
to the steady breeze which was blowing, headed from the harbour of
Singapore. An hour later her course was set direct for the north-western
point of Borneo, towards which she sped at a gentle pace.

"Once we make the land, I propose to veer to the north and cruise along
the north-western coast," said Mr. Beverley, as he and Tyler stood side
by side on deck. "Then I shall look out for a river which seems wide
enough for navigation, and after landing and obtaining information from
the Malays who may happen to be in the neighbourhood, I shall push on
up the river till the shallows or other difficulties prevent me. After
that we shall act as circumstances direct, though my aim and object is
to wander from end to end of Borneo Proper, ending my journey in the
neighbourhood of Sarawak."

"Land ho! Land in sight!"

John Marshall's shout brought all aboard the little schooner hurrying
to the deck early one morning six days after the voyage had commenced.
"Away there a couple of points to starboard," he continued, directing
Tyler's gaze in a line which would show him the object in view. "Hilly
land, with green trees, sir, and it's Borneo, I'm thinking."

"Borneo, sure enough, John," sang out Mr. Beverley in tones of pleasure,
fixing his eyes on the distant land through a pair of glasses. "Take
a look, Tyler, and tell me what you see. There is such a haze upon the
water that I am confused, though I am certain, from the direct course
that we have made, that the island before us is the one for which we are
bound."

