"I can make out a long range of hills," said Tyler, after he had taken
a steady look at the distant object, "and--why, I declare that there is
the very craft that lay close alongside us at Singapore."

"Where? Which vessel do you mean?" demanded his companion quickly. "Not
that it matters much, or is of the least importance," he added, "for
there is quite a considerable trade done with Borneo, and ships pass to
and fro."

"Not vessels like that one," said Tyler under his breath, turning to
Mr. Beverley swiftly and lifting a warning finger, for he had suddenly
become aware of the fact that Hanns Schlott was beside them, eagerly
listening to their words. "Yes," he went on, as if agreeing to what
had been said, "she is no doubt just an ordinary trader, and we shall
probably meet with many more. Are you going below to work out our
position?"

Conscious that Tyler must have some occasion for speaking as he did, and
at once noticing his signal to be cautious, Mr. Beverley indulged in one
more glance through the glasses, so as to disarm suspicion, and then,
taking the hint which had been thrown out, disappeared below, where he
was at once joined by our hero.

"Well," he demanded, as soon as they were in the cabin and had closed
the door, "why this mystery? Why is there need for caution? You puzzle
me, my lad."

"Perhaps I have no right to be suspicious," answered Tyler, "but you
will recollect that I told you that I had seen Hanns Schlott speaking
with a stranger while at Singapore, and that he accompanied his friend
on board. The vessel upon which they went is the one now in view, and
its commander is the rascally-looking fellow I described to you."

"But surely--" commenced Mr. Beverley, and then suddenly became silent.
"What do you fear?" he asked in a quiet voice some moments later,
turning a thoughtful face towards his young companion. "Come, do not
hesitate to speak your mind, for I shall not laugh at you. You have seen
something which has aroused distrust in your mind, and you are anxious.
I can see that plainly, and as I know well that you are a young fellow
upon whom I can rely, and moreover, that you are not inclined to cry out
without a cause, I feel sure that there is really something serious.
Now, what is it exactly, and, first of all, are you positive that the
ship we have seen is the one upon which Hanns Schlott's friend was
quartered?"

