"I am absolutely certain," was the emphatic answer. "The vessel in the
offing is a low-built native craft, and to anyone who had not observed
her closely she would appear much the same as others to be seen in and
about Singapore. However, I happened to take good stock of her, for I
tell you that from the very first I have distrusted our interpreter, and
I noticed that she had a large slit in her sail, which had been roughly
stitched. The craft lying under the land has a jagged hole in the very
same position, and I feel positive that it is the one which we are
discussing."

"But supposing she is the identical boat," burst in Mr. Beverley,
"surely there is nothing in the fact of her being in this neighbourhood?"

"Perhaps not. It may turn out that I am giving an alarm for which there
is no need; but of this I am confident, the vessel owned by Hanns
Schlott's friend is no peaceful trader, or if she is at times, she
occasionally indulges in warfare of some description."

"How could you know that, Tyler? You must be romancing."

"I think not," was the steady answer. "At the time, I recollect that I
merely noticed that her wood-work was riddled with bullet-holes in many
places, and that while some had been the work of months ago, others had
been recently made. I remember thinking it strange, but then we were
so busy fitting out for the expedition that I quickly forgot all about
it. I ought to have mentioned it when we were discussing Hanns, but felt
that I might have turned you against him in an unjust way. Now that I
see the very same ship the whole thing recurs to me with added force,
and makes me feel that all is not as it should be. You yourself have
told me that pirates abound in these seas. Then why should this vessel
not be one of that type, and how are you to know that Hanns Schlott
is not in league with the commander and crew, and merely awaiting a
favourable opportunity to take possession of this schooner?"

Tyler put the question quietly, and in as low tones as was possible,
but for all that his heart beat fast, whilst his pulses throbbed with
excitement. For he was a thoughtful and an observant young fellow, and
was by no means dull or devoid of sense. What, then, was more likely
than that news of Mr. Beverley's expedition should have leaked out
and become common property at Singapore? Indeed, the governor had had
tidings of it, and had Tyler and his chief only known, many in Singapore
were aware of their intentions. Then was it not possible that a whisper
should have reached the ears of the pirates about Borneo? And supposing
that to have been the case, supposing, for an instant, that the very
vessel which the two were discussing in the cabin of the schooner
had chanced to put into some port near at hand to obtain a supply of
provisions, and had happened to gain the tidings from a crew recently
from Singapore--providing the crew and their commander were given to
piracy, was it not almost certain that they would at once make plans
to swoop down upon the members of what could only be a weakly-manned
expedition? Yes, as Mr. Beverley reviewed the facts, he could not help
but realize the gravity of the case, and at once he turned a troubled
face to his companion. As for the latter, he, too, was worried, and
filled with vague fears for the safety of all on board. Had he but
been able to read Hanns Schlott's thoughts at that moment he would have
been more alarmed, and would have seen that there was ample cause for
his concern. Indeed, a glance at the interpreter would have sufficed,
for once his two leaders had retired the latter seized a glass which he
carried in an inner pocket and applied it to his eye. A moment later he
gave vent to a guttural exclamation of satisfaction, and having looked
about him to see that he was not observed, went into the bows, where,
hidden by the bulging sail, he held a big red handkerchief well above
his head, and let it flutter there.

