"Ja!" he growled beneath his breath. "Meinheer shall see. He thinks
that Hanns Schlott is too fat and too tired to be anything but an
interpreter, but he shall find out for himself. And Christian van
Sonerell is there as he promised. Ha, ha, ha! He is a bad man to have
such a name, but he can keep to his word. 'When you sight the island you
will find me there', he said; and see, his vessel sails before us, an
innocent trader for the moment, but later--ah, we shall see!"

With one more glance in the direction of the distant native craft, and a
second furtive flutter of the handkerchief, he turned and went along the
deck, laughing softly, as though the prospect of some piece of villainy
which he were about to undertake were delighting him.




CHAPTER IV

A Traitor and a Villain


"I begin to think that there is some reason in your fears, and that,
after all, your good sense and powers of observation are about to save
us from a very ugly encounter," said Mr. Beverley slowly, turning to
Tyler after some minutes' thought. "I am a man who dislikes to do
anyone an injustice, and it is on that account, and because I tried
to persuade myself that I had no right to take a dislike to the man,
that I determined to think well of our interpreter. But I fear that
Hanns Schlott is a rogue, if not worse, and that he is a party in a
conspiracy. However, we are not taken yet, and shall give much trouble
before any harm comes to us. What do you advise?"

"That we arm at once," said Tyler promptly, "and show these fellows that
we are prepared. Say nothing to Hanns, but watch him carefully, and at
the first sign of treachery make him a prisoner. Above all, refuse to
allow the native boat to come within more than hailing distance."

"Yes, the plan seems a good one, and we will set about it immediately,"
cried Mr. Beverley, springing to his feet. "As for this Hanns Schlott,
he seems to be a rogue, and as a rogue I will treat him if he shows
any inclination to be mischievous. As you suggest, I will make him a
prisoner if he gives me the opportunity, and then I shall take steps
to hand him over to the Dutch Government. There are numbers of his
countrymen in the neighbouring island, for the Dutch have had many
stations in the Archipelago for numbers of years, and by slipping round
to Celebes, or across to Java, we should have no difficulty about
placing him in the custody of one of the residents appointed by his
country. But I am sure that at the present moment our best plan will be
to keep on terms of friendship with him, to make believe that we trust
him, while secretly we keep watch to avoid treachery. Now how are we to
set about it?"

