"Let us call John Marshall and take him into our confidence," said Tyler
promptly. "He is a thoroughly good fellow, and has our interests at
heart. Shall I send for him now?"

A few minutes' consideration told Mr. Beverley that it would be as well
to warn the young English sailor who accompanied them, for should there
be any trouble with the crew, these three Europeans would naturally
fight side by side. As for Hanns Schlott, it was useless to think of him
as a friend, for the more his conduct was considered the more certain
did it become that he was engaged in some dark conspiracy.

"We have to recollect that as a prize we should prove valuable,"
remarked Mr. Beverley suddenly. "You see, Tyler, the Government and the
firm of rubber merchants for whom I am making this expedition have given
me a liberal sum with which to pay my way; and indeed they are wise in
doing so, for money expended now in a journey such as ours is likely
to be, and presents made to Dyak chiefs, are likely to bear very good
interest in the future. There are sufficient dollars aboard to make
a handsome fortune, and in addition our equipment is of considerable
value. Indeed, there is no denying the fact that to one of these native
prahus we should be a rich haul, and it is mainly with such a prospect
in view that I determined to thoroughly arm the schooner. Who can say
how much Hanns Schlott and his accomplices know? If there is actually
a conspiracy they must have considered it worth their while to follow
us, for otherwise why should they take all the trouble? But there is no
use in wondering. The question now is, how are we to protect ourselves?
Forewarned is forearmed, and now that our suspicions have been aroused,
let it not be said that we have proved rash and careless. Just sing out
for John, and tell him to come down at once."

Going to the narrow companion, which led to the deck above, Tyler
ascended slowly, and having reached the upper level, looked carefully
round. There was John standing close beside the tiller, which was
manned by one of the Malays, while a few of the crew sat and lounged
near at hand. Of Hanns Schlott there was not a sign, but a moment later
something red fluttering in the breeze beyond the mainsail of the
schooner attracted his attention, and, taking a step to one side, he saw
the Dutch interpreter standing with his back against the mast, with his
handkerchief held at arm's length above his head. A second later the
arm dropped, and the square of red disappeared into one of his pockets.
Then, as Tyler darted back to the companion and descended a few steps,
the slouching Hanns Schlott turned and came walking along the deck. A
few paces carried him beyond the sail, and instantly his eye fell upon
Tyler, who made pretence to be just emerging from the cabin.

