"Had he been seen? Had this young Englishman, whom from the very first
he had detested, been spying upon him?" Hanns Schlott flushed red at the
thought as he asked himself the questions, and then turned to address
our hero.

"The land in sight is Borneo," he said. "Ja, I know it, for I have been
there before. We have a pleasant trip before us, meinheer."

"Perhaps you have friends there," responded Tyler quietly, directing a
keen glance at the Dutchman, which caused the latter's eyes to drop,
while his face again flushed.

"Does he know more than he should, this young idiot?" he murmured
beneath his breath. "Does he suspect the prahu lying under the land?
Pooh! It is impossible, for like all of his country he is dull, and
thinks it honourable to trust all with whom he comes in contact. But I
must be cautious, and should he show an inclination to thwart me I will
silence his tongue for good. Ja, Hanns Schlott, you are clever, and
more than once have you paid a visit to Singapore on the same errand,
with Christian van Sonerell to help you. A few months back you contrived
to capture a merchantman, and on this occasion you will not be baulked
by any of these fools. The youngster means only to be pleasant when he
suggests that I have friends at hand, and it is absurd to think that he
suspects me."

Banishing all fears of discovery from his mind in this sweeping manner,
the Dutchman waited only to assure Tyler that he was unknown to any in
Borneo, and then went sauntering along the deck. As for the latter,
he remained on the companion ladder for some moments watching the
interpreter.

"He is a rogue, I am sure," he said to himself, "and the fact that I
have caught him in the act of signalling to the prahu convinces me
that I am right. He started when I suggested that he had companions
on the island, and for the moment I could see that he feared that I
had witnessed his act. Otherwise why did he address me? For he is a
silent man, and during the week or more that I have known him has never
ventured to say a word unless directly asked a question. Now, if I call
John Marshall down into the cabin without a sufficient excuse, Hanns
Schlott will begin to think that matters are not going smoothly for him.
Ah, I know!"

