Springing up the remaining steps of the ladder, he emerged upon the
deck and walked towards the young sailor, pausing as he did so to gaze
at the distant land, to which the schooner had drawn distinctly nearer,
and under the shadow of which the native prahu which had aroused his
suspicions still lay. Then he went to the tiller and addressed John
Marshall.

"We wish to make arrangements for the landing-party," he said so that
all on board could hear. "Mr. Beverley requests that you will come down
into the cabin and help him in selecting the men."

Turning upon his heel he at once retraced his steps and was soon joined
by the young sailor in the cabin.

"Close the door, please," said Mr. Beverley as the latter entered. "Now
sit down there, John, and tell me candidly what you think of our crew?"

Thus bidden, the boatswain dropped on to a wooden form and sat there
uncomfortably twirling his cap between his fingers for some minutes, as
though unable to do what he was asked. Then he suddenly raised his head,
and, looking first at his interrogator and then at Tyler, blurted out
his news.

"They ain't right, and that's the whole matter with 'em," he said
shortly. "Away in Singapore they were just easy to handle, and worked
almost as hard as a British crew. But the feeding's too good for 'em by
half, and they're getting above themselves. It's the truth, sir, and I
tell you that they are altogether out of hand. As for the Dutch cove
aboard, well--"

John Marshall shrugged his shoulders disdainfully, and lifted his hands
as much as to say that the matter was beyond expression. Then he sank
back on the form and looked at Mr. Beverley as if awaiting another
question.

"What about Hanns Schlott then?" demanded the latter. "Do you think
that he is in league with rogues who have followed us to Borneo? My
young friend, Mr. Richardson, declares that the prahu lying under the
island is one which was moored in the harbour at Singapore close to this
schooner, and that her condition and the appearance of her commander led
to the suspicion that she was not altogether a peaceful trader."

