"Then he ain't far out," cried the boatswain, suddenly leaping to his
feet and coming forward to lean with both hands upon the cabin table.
"I don't know as how I've seen anything particular, but there's pirates
in these seas, for I learnt that when in Singapore, while the Dutchman
aboard is a wrong 'un. It wouldn't surprise me to hear that he had fixed
it up to murder the whole lot of us, and if I had my way I'd pitch him
ashore at the very first landing-place."

He gave vent to a snort of indignation, and changed his cap from one
hand to the other, while he kept his eyes closely fixed upon Mr.
Beverley.

"Then you will be all the more ready to follow the plan which we have
decided upon," exclaimed the latter; "but secrecy is a thing which
we must carefully observe. Remember this, that our suspicions may be
unfounded, and that the prahu over there and our interpreter may be
as innocent of treachery as we are. As for the crew, it grieves me to
hear that they are not to be relied upon, and now that I have heard it
I realize that should trouble come we three must depend upon ourselves
alone. From this moment we must carry weapons upon us, and as soon as it
is dark we must take it in turn to keep watch. Then, too, at the very
first opportunity we will load our six-pounders, cramming them with
grape-shot, and replacing the tarpaulin covers over the touch-holes once
we have laid the fuse. If there is trouble we will rush to one end of
the boat and defend ourselves there."

"Then only one of the six-pounders must be prepared," cried Tyler with
emphasis, "for otherwise, while we were posted in the bows, those in the
stern would lay the gun there upon us and blow us into pieces."

"Ah! I had forgotten that, my lad, and I thank you for giving the
warning," said Mr. Beverley. "Who knows, it may be the saving of our
lives! And now as to the watch to be set. We will divide the night into
three parts, and will settle upon a signal which will awaken those who
are off duty and bring them on deck."

