"Then let it be a pistol-shot, if I may make so bold as to give a bit of
advice," burst in John. "Yer see, sir, the crack of a little weapon like
that is loud enough to reach to any part of the schooner, unless a gale
is blowing, and it's so sudden-like and unexpected that it fetches yer
upon yer pins before yer know what's happening. Besides, a pistol's a
handy weapon to carry in one's pocket."

"And as it is the only one with which we shall be armed, we will adopt
your suggestion," said Mr. Beverley. "Then, all understand that the
firing of a shot means trouble, and that all three of us instantly make
for the stern of the vessel, there to fight whoever may come along. And
now I propose to go on deck and take a closer look at the land. Then
we will turn to the north-west and coast along in that direction until
evening falls, when we will haul in and let go our anchor. Once set up
for the night, you, John, will take the first watch, our young friend
here joining you as soon as the Malays are out of the way, and helping
to load the six-pounder in the stern. When that is done he will return
to the cabin, and when you have completed three hours of your watch I
shall come and relieve you, to hand over the duty after a similar period
to Mr. Richardson. Here are weapons for all of us. See that you place
them well out of sight and give no indication of their presence."

Going to a locker which was built beneath one of the cabin seats, he
lifted the lid and groped in the interior, to withdraw his hand in a few
moments grasping a bundle wrapped in a piece of old blanket. Placing it
upon the table he cut the cord which surrounded it, and gingerly opened
his parcel.

"The latest weapon," he said with a smile; "as you will see, some clever
fellow has invented a revolving drum which will enable us to fire as
many as six shots without reloading. I purchased six, so that each one
of us should have twelve shots in his belt. Here is the ammunition, too,
and we will at once commence to divide it."

