Ten minutes later, when the three ascended to the deck, it was with
curiously mingled feelings of excitement and anxiety, for who could
tell what was about to happen? That some plot was afoot to capture the
schooner and murder the three Englishmen upon it Tyler had no doubt, and
the information which John Marshall had given as to the crew had served
only to make the danger more real. Standing there beside the sail, with
his eyes fixed upon the native prahu, he realized that he and his two
comrades were helpless, for how could they fight a crew of ten muscular
Malays led by Hanns Schlott? And if, in addition, the men on board the
prahu came to the assistance of their friends, what chance would there
be of resisting them?

"We should be cut to pieces," he said to himself, "or should be driven
off the boat. But we shall see. Perhaps, after all, we have no need to
be frightened, and matters will turn out better than we anticipate."

To attempt to console himself with this thought was useless, for do what
he would Tyler could not allay his suspicions. If he turned to the coast
of Borneo his eyes invariably fell upon the prahu there, while if he
tramped restlessly up and down the deck of the schooner the slouching
figure of Hanns Schlott came into view, sending his thoughts once more
to the evil-looking companion with whom the latter had consorted. Then
again, now that his attention had been drawn to the crew of Malays who
manned the schooner, he could not help but notice an air of insolence
which had been strange to them a week ago. Then they had been almost
too cringing and polite, while now they glanced at their three English
officers as though conscious of the fact that the position was about to
change. But thinking could do no good, and as every precaution had been
taken Tyler and his friends had to content themselves with watching the
distant shore and waiting patiently for the night to come. At length the
sun disappeared behind a bank of clouds, while the light perceptibly
faded. Almost at the same moment a deep bay was noticed in the coast
of Borneo, and into this the schooner was promptly headed. Running in
till within a mile of the shore she hauled down her sails and let go the
anchor just as the short twilight which reigns in the Archipelago gave
place to darkest night.

