"Now is your time to see about the gun," said Mr. Beverley, who had
taken his station beside Tyler. "The natives have their meals at this
hour and will be huddled together in the bows. Our interpreter is seated
at this moment in his cabin, where he will be out of the way. Get the
work done quickly, and let me know when all is in readiness."

Tyler at once ran to carry out the orders, for now that the night had
fallen he realized that if trouble were in store for them it would be at
such a time, when darkness covered the water and hid their surroundings.
Going to the bulkhead which closed one end of the cabin, he unlocked the
door there and entered the tiny magazine with which the schooner was
provided. Then he emerged again with the necessary ammunition, and ere
long was able to assure his leader that all was in readiness. That done
he lay down upon his bunk and attempted to sleep, but without success;
for though he closed his eyes tightly his brain still remained actively
at work, while his ears were ever open for that pistol-shot which was
to give the signal agreed upon. Hour after hour dragged wearily by, and
it was a relief to him when at last Mr. Beverley touched him upon the
shoulder and told him that it was time for him to go on deck and take
his turn in looking after the safety of the vessel.

"There has not been a sound," he whispered, "and nothing has occurred
so far to arouse our suspicions. Both John and I have endeavoured to
discover the position of the prahu, but the night is too dark. When we
ran into the bay she was some distance higher up the coast, and for all
we know may have anchored there. Keep your eyes and ears open, and do
not hesitate to give the signal if there should be cause."

Promising to follow the advice given to him, Tyler leapt from his bunk
and crept up on deck, to find that the schooner lay without a movement
on the water, and that the sky above was lit up by myriads of bright
stars. All round, however, was impenetrable gloom, and though he went
to either side of the schooner, and with arms leaning upon the bulwarks
peered into the darkness, nothing caught his eye, while there was no
sound save the gentle lisp of the water against the vessel's side to
attract his attention.

