"What was that?" He stood still beside the companion which led from the
cabin and listened eagerly, while his heart beat heavily and thumped
almost audibly against his ribs. "Ah, there it was again; a splash
somewhere near at hand!"

Darting to the side he slipped his boots from his feet, and then ran
silently along the deck till close to the bows, when he suddenly caught
sight of a figure standing before him. In an instant his hand grasped
the butt of one of his revolvers, and, drawing the weapon, he advanced
upon the man.

"Who is that?" he demanded in low but commanding tones. "Answer at once."

At the words the figure before him started suddenly and turned swiftly
about. Then a second voice broke the silence.

"Who but Hanns Schlott, meinheer?" was the answer, in tones which the
speaker endeavoured to render suave. "Who but the interpreter, who,
finding sleep impossible on this fine night, has come upon deck to enjoy
silence and solitude."

"Then what caused the splash?"

"The splash, meinheer! Ah! I recollect there was a rope coiled here
beside the halyard, and as I leaned against the rail my arm touched it,
and it fell into the water. See, here it is; I will pull it on board."

He grasped a thick cable close at hand, and pulled upon it till the end
came over the bulwark and fell upon the deck. Then, yawning loudly,
he bade Tyler a curt "good-night!" and disappeared below, leaving the
latter standing upon the deck full of suspicion and with vague fears
of some unknown but impending trouble. Indeed, had he but followed
the crafty Dutchman to his cabin, and watched his behaviour there,
the signal which had been agreed upon would have at once awakened the
silence of the night, and brought his two comrades rushing up to support
him. But his duty was to watch above, and therefore, slipping his boots
on to his feet, once more he slowly trudged the length of the vessel,
halting every now and again to listen intently for sounds, and stare
into the darkness. Meanwhile Hanns Schlott had disappeared within his
cabin.

