"All is well," he was saying to himself, as he knelt beside the tin
trunk which contained his possessions. "The young fool was suspicious,
that I could see, but my word satisfied him, and he is now tramping the
deck in the full belief that no danger threatens. But Hanns Schlott
knows better. Ha, ha! Christian van Sonerell will make nothing of the
climb on to the schooner, though the rope which I had secured over the
side would have been of great service to him. In a little while he will
be here, and then I shall be ready."

Searching amongst the contents of his trunk he produced an enormous
pistol, which he carefully examined. Then, thrusting a small bag of
money into one of his pockets and gently closing the lid of the box, he
stole from the cabin, weapon in hand, and went creeping across the floor
in the direction of the bunk in which lay Mr. Beverley. Twice he came
to a sudden halt in the course of his murderous journey, and crouched
there silent and motionless beside the cabin table, for the rustle of
the sleeper's bed-clothes, and an interruption in the regularity of his
breathing, told that Mr. Beverley was not so deeply unconscious as this
rascally Dutchman would desire. Indeed, for a minute or more it seemed
as though some sense of impending danger, some vague dream of a levelled
weapon and the hand of an assassin, had crossed the mind of the sleeper,
for he suddenly awoke to a troubled half-consciousness, and, raising
himself upon an elbow, peered with blinking eyes into the darkness. Did
he hear anything? He lay there so still, breathing so silently, that the
Dutchman's craven heart leapt into his mouth, while the fingers which
grasped his weapon trembled as though they would relinquish their grasp.
Squeezing his body as far as possible beneath the table he crouched
still closer to the floor, in the attitude of a tiger about to spring
upon his victim. And all the while he kept those slit-like eyes fixed in
the direction of the bunk, while his ears listened eagerly for outside
sounds.

