"Will those fools never come?" he said with many a curse beneath his
breath. "If only Christian van Sonerell and his men would arrive at
this moment I would send the bullet crashing into his body. And if this
man should stir again I will press the trigger without a doubt. Ja, I
will risk it, for to be discovered now would be to ruin our enterprise
and get myself into trouble. Ah! the dolt thinks better of it, and has
placed his face once more upon the pillow. Then I will remain as I am
and give him a few minutes longer to live. By then he will have settled
to sleep once more, and will fall the more easily to my weapon. Hist!
There is someone moving."

As he spoke, a slight sound from the far end of the alleyway, where John
Marshall had his quarters, broke upon the villain's ear, and instantly
he became even more alert, while once more an unsteady arm levelled
the pistol, prepared to turn it upon the sleeper or on anyone else who
should be so unfortunate as to come into the cabin and disturb him
in the midst of his work. "Ah!" Hanns Schlott's head became suddenly
erected, while the face turned involuntarily with a rapid movement
towards the companion ladder. At the same moment the splash of an oar
broke the silence, causing Tyler to suddenly halt in his restless tramp
upon the deck and then dash towards the side. There it was again,
followed in succession by others, proving that a boat was approaching,
while scarcely had the fact dawned upon his senses than a dim object,
rapidly becoming more visible through the darkness, suddenly came into
view. Whipping a weapon from beneath his coat, he levelled it in the
direction of the object and gave vent to a shout.

"Stop there!" he cried in piercing tones. "If you pull a stroke nearer I
will fire into you. Halt, I say!"

Leaning upon the rail which guarded the schooner's side, he stretched
towards the oncoming boat, closely watching its movements, while at the
same time he eagerly listened for sounds from below, for some sign which
would tell him that Mr. Beverley and John Marshall had sprung from their
bunks and were rushing to his aid. Nor was he destined to be kept long
waiting, for hardly had the words left his lips, warning those on the
boat to come no nearer, than a pistol-shot rang out in the night with
startling loudness, the sharp report rushing up from the cabin below.
Then a piercing shriek awakened the echoes, telling of the foul crime
which had just been committed. Almost instantly there was the noise of a
scuffle below, followed by the soft thud of a heavy blow delivered, and
a second afterwards a crash and the sound of splintering wood as some
unwieldy body fell upon the table.

