Utterly bewildered at the turn which events had suddenly taken, Tyler
stood there leaning upon the rail, dumbfounded and uncertain how to
act. Not for long, however, did he hesitate, for whatever the trouble
below there was no doubt that a serious danger threatened them outside.
Indeed, one quick glance told him that in spite of his warning words the
dim ghostly object which he had caught sight of was rapidly approaching,
while the splash of oars became now still more distinct. Instantly his
finger closed round the trigger of his weapon, and just as the clatter
of heavily-booted feet ascending the companion told him that John
Marshall was at hand, his revolver spoke out, sending a bullet into the
very centre of the men crowded together in the oncoming boat. There was
another shriek, still more piercing than that one which had ascended
from below, while a shadowy figure, which he could just see through the
gloom, suddenly tossed a pair of lanky arms into the night and then
collapsed in a heap. But what was a life to these marauders? With a
savage heave, as the lifeless body fell upon him, one of the oarsmen
tossed his dead comrade overboard, and then bent to his oar once more,
stimulated to do so by the encouraging shouts of a burly individual who
stood in the bows of the boat.

"On them!" he shouted in stentorian tones, using a mixture of the Dutch
and Malay language. "Clamber aboard and slit the throats of any of the
Englishmen who may still be alive. Pull for it, for if you do not hurry
Hanns Schlott will have done the work, and you will be disappointed."

Bang! Once again Tyler's smoking revolver launched a missile at the
enemy, a shrill cry of pain clearly denoting the fact that it had found
a billet. Then John Marshall's lithe figure suddenly appeared beside
him and another weapon opened into the darkness. In rapid succession,
and with steady and unerring aim, did the two young fellows fire upon
the pirates. But they might have been a hundred yards away for all the
effect they produced, for these men were used to such scuffles, and were
not to be so easily turned aside, particularly when they recollected the
fact that the schooner had at the most but three white men to protect
her, whilst on board were staunch allies of their own. Every moment
they waited to hear the voice of the Dutchman, Hanns Schlott, who had
so cleverly obtained the post of interpreter. They listened eagerly and
peered into the gloom as they plied their oars, looking to see his bulky
figure at the head of the Malay crew. Nor was their patience severely
tried, though in the case of the rascally Dutchman they were doomed to
disappointment; for when a few yards separated the bows of their boat
from the schooner's side, ten dusky figures came rushing from their
quarters for'ard and swept in a body along the deck.

