"Look out!" shouted Tyler in warning tones. "The crew have joined
against us and we must fight for our lives. Back to the stern, but first
of all where is Mr. Beverley, for we cannot think of retiring till he
is with us? Steady, John! Stand side by side with me, and rush for the
cabin."

Grasping his comrade by the sleeve, Tyler made a movement towards the
companion, with the full intention of darting down into the space below
and rescuing his leader. But scarcely had he moved a pace than the
strong fingers of the boatswain arrested his progress and urged him
towards the stern.

"Yer can't do it. It's out of the question, I tell yer, sir, for Mr.
Beverley's dead, he's been murdered by that scoundrel."

"Dead! Killed by Hanns Schlott!" exclaimed Tyler, instantly realizing
that any deed of violence and treachery must be attributable to the
Dutchman. "How awful! But how do you know? Are you not making a terrible
mistake?"

He blurted out the words in short sentences, and remained there,
determined not to budge an inch or to do anything to secure his own
retreat until he was assured by his companion that it was useless
to attempt to bring help to their leader. And all the while the two
young fellows stood resolutely side by side, resolved to support one
another to the end, and die rather than submit, for each realized that
capture would be followed by nothing else but a cruel death. Indeed,
the knowledge that that would be their end without a doubt should they
fall into the hands of these enemies who had suddenly sprung up from
the darkness braced their nerves, and helped their determination to
fight desperately. Dragging their reserve weapons from their belts they
levelled them at the crew who had mutinied, whilst each kept his eye
turned ever and anon to the side from which the boat-load of pirates was
approaching, prepared to send a bullet in that direction the instant the
marauders appeared.

"Quick! How do you know that he is dead, that this villain, Hanns
Schlott, has murdered him?" demanded Tyler hoarsely. "Tell me at once,
for otherwise I will dash below and see things as they are for myself."

