Once more he stepped towards the companion as though doubtful of the
information which his companion had given, and anxious to clear up the
mystery of Mr. Beverley's absence for himself. But a shout from John and
a firm grip of his fingers once more arrested him, while the explanation
of this strange silence of their leader, the reason why he was not there
to stand or fall beside them, was hissed into Tyler's ears.

"He's dead, sure enough," said John Marshall. "Just before your shout
to those beggars came rushing down below I thought I heard suspicious
sounds in the cabin. I didn't like to think that some villainy was
afoot, and so I just hopped out of my bunk and came into the alleyway.
Then I stole softly into the cabin, match-box in hand, and a lucifer
between my fingers. I was just in the act of striking a light when your
shout startled me. A second later a pistol went off within three yards
of where I stood, while Mr. Beverley gave a shriek which made my blood
run cold. I dropped the match in my terror, but a second after it flared
up in the darkness, lighting the cabin from end to end, and showing
me Hanns Schlott kneeling on the floor with a smoking pistol in his
hand. Like a flash I guessed the murdering game he'd been after, and
I scarcely gave him time to get on to his feet when I was upon him. I
just gave a jump across the cabin and then let fly with my fist, sending
him crashing into the table. Then I struck another lucifer, and finding
him capsized all in a heap, and completely stunned, I ran across to Mr.
Beverley. He's dead I tell yer, sir, for there's a bullet wound as big
as my fist over his heart and not a breath came from his lips. Let's get
back to the stern."

Hissing the words in Tyler's ear, but a few moments had been employed
in imparting the information. But short though the interval had been,
it had been sufficient to increase the gravity of the position, for by
now the crew of Malays who had manned the schooner, and who up to this
had hung back awaiting the arrival of Hanns Schlott to lead them, had
decided to attack without his help, and one of their number springing
forward, kriss in hand, the remainder came rushing in a body towards
the two young Englishmen, brandishing their weapons above their heads
and shouting at the top of their voices. Almost at the same instant the
rays from the lantern, which was slung as a riding-light in the for'ard
part of the schooner, fell upon the villainous face of the Dutchman,
Christian van Sonerell, who came climbing over the bulwarks, quickly
followed by a dozen cut-throat Malays.

