"Back to the stern!" shouted Tyler, turning swiftly about. "Get behind
the gun and stand ready to shoot!"

Joined by John Marshall, he raced towards the end of the schooner till
his progress was suddenly obstructed by a cable which stretched from
the rail to the end of the tiller, and then again across to the opposite
bulwarks.

"Look out for the rope!" he cried in warning tones. "Now step over
it, and give it a hitch to pull it taut. It will stretch as a barrier
between us and the Malays."

Quick to grasp his meaning, the young boatswain thrust his weapons into
his belt so as to set his hands free, and then, darting to the side,
rapidly unloosed the rope which kept the tiller amidships and from
swaying from side to side as the vessel lay at anchor. With the deft
fingers of a sailor he rearranged it, pulling it taut till it stretched
between the bulwarks like a bowstring. Then, finding that there was some
yards of slack, he darted forward once more to where the binnacle stood
some six feet beyond the end of the tiller, and, making a turn of the
rope around it, brought the tail-end to the opposite side.

"That'll fix 'em!" he cried in tones of excitement as he returned to
Tyler's side. "It's too dark for those fellows to see the cable, and
they'll find themselves brought up sharp when they come rushing towards
us. Are yer ready for them, sir?"

Meanwhile Tyler had been by no means idle, for there was much to be done
to prepare for the contest. Seeing that his companion had realized the
help which the rope barrier would give them, he turned his attention to
the gun, and hastily threw off the tarpaulin jacket with which it was
covered. Gently running his fingers over the breach, they quickly came
in contact with a small heap of powder which he had carefully left in
position there when loading the weapon. A moment's search discovered
the touch-hole, and a rapid movement of the hand swept the glistening
grains over it. Stooping down he looked along the barrel, and aided by
the light cast by the lantern which swayed in the for'ard rigging, and
with one hand turning the wheel which altered the elevation, he rapidly
levelled the barrel so that the contents would sweep about waist-high
across the deck. A slight movement of the breech towards the left
pointed the gun clear of the binnacle and towards that portion of the
ship where the pirates were massing.

