"That's done," he shouted in answer to John Marshall's question; "and
now I'm ready to blow a hole through the rascals. Stand aside, John,
and just keep your eye upon them. The lamp swings in just the right
position, and by its aid every one of the enemy can be seen as he moves.
It is more than likely that the leader is the only one possessed of a
pistol, so watch him closely, and when you see him about to fire let
drive with your own weapon. I will stand beside the gun, but unless they
rush at us in one dense body I shall not discharge it, for the ropes
will protect us, and, moreover, it is probable that at first only a few
of the most courageous will venture to attack. Later on, when matters
become more serious, I will fire my pistol over the touch-hole and send
a shower of grape scattering through them. Ah, there is the ringleader,
and by his movements he is about to lead them to the assault!"




CHAPTER V

Escape from the Schooner


Scarcely five minutes had elapsed from the time when Hanns Schlott's
cowardly finger had pressed the trigger and sent the murderous bullet
into the breast of the sleeper. Indeed, to Tyler, as he stood there
upon the stern, pistol in hand, prepared to discharge the contents of
the six-pounder into the midst of the pirates, the sharp report, that
piercing, piteous scream still rang in his ears, while the thud of
John's massive fist and the crash and noise of splintering wood-work
as the rascally Dutchman was knocked to the floor were fresh in his
memory. Then had come the rapid appearance of the boatswain, to be
followed shortly afterwards by the figures of the mutinous crew rushing
up on deck to aid their comrades. And all the while his own weapon had
been snapping, sending a shower of bullets amongst the occupants of the
approaching boat. So much had happened in that short space of time, so
rapid had been the succession of events, that the moments had flown
by. Now, however, it was so different, for, waiting there beside the
gun, with one companion alone to support him, to help him face a horde
of ruffians intent upon their lives, the seconds seemed minutes, the
minutes hours, so desperate was the situation. A shout, a shot in their
direction, or the sudden rush of the pirates would have been a welcome
relief to the tension, but as yet their condition was unchanged.

