"But what about the dinghy?" asked his companion swiftly. "Ain't she all
right? What's to prevent us jumping overboard and swimming to her? It
wouldn't take no more than a minute, and then before these beggars guess
what we were up to we'd be into her and dodging away in the darkness."

Tyler had barely time to give his assent to the proposal when the
Dutchman and his followers were upon them. Scampering along the deck,
they came in a confused crowd towards the stern, each one grasping a
weapon, and all with their eyes fixed upon the two solitary figures
standing there. That those who came close behind their leader were
filled with courage and with the determination to be victorious there
was little doubt, for the eagerness with which they dashed forward
showed it plainly. Quite a number, however, showed far less resolution,
for the Malay does not love a struggle which is likely to prove
difficult, and dangerous to his life. Some there may be of the pirates
whose days are passed in stern encounters, but the majority spend
their time in looking for helpless individuals upon whom they may fall
suddenly and when least expected. Here, however, the matter was quite
different, for opposed to them, and standing beside a gun which, for
all they knew, might be crammed to the muzzle, were two of the three
Englishmen whom they had hoped to make easy victims. That they would
fight, and fight hard too, was evident, for otherwise they would have
thrown down their weapons at the sight of so many enemies and begged
for their lives. But this they had shown no inclination to do; and that
fact, combined with the resolute air with which they faced the tide of
pirates rushing down upon them, caused a few of the more faint-hearted
to hold back. Instead of racing recklessly forward they halted there
upon the deck, and made up for their lack of courage by shrieking shrill
words of encouragement to their friends.

Crash! The Dutchman, charging madly upon the gun, came in contact with
the rope stretched between the binnacle and the bulwarks, and in a
moment his feet were cut from under him and he pitched forward upon his
face; a huge Malay followed, kriss in hand, and attempted to leap the
unseen obstacle. But he failed to rise sufficiently high, and catching
his toes upon the cable came with a thud upon his leader. The third
was more cautious, for, realizing the cause of their downfall, and
the crafty trap which had been set for the attackers, he stretched his
hand into the darkness and felt for the rope. A second, and his fingers
lit upon it, when his weapon flashed above his head as he prepared to
sever the hempen obstacle. But John Marshall was closely watching the
scene, and realizing that once the barrier had gone their chances would
be lessened, he stretched towards the man and, just as the blow was
falling, fired point-blank at him. Then with a shout he leapt the rope
which stretched from the tiller, and dashing upon the Malay who had
fallen upon his leader, he clutched him by the waist and tossed him over
the side.

