[Illustration: THE FIGHT AT THE STERN]

"Well done!" cried Tyler enthusiastically; "but get back at once, for
the others are coming. Quick, or they will be upon you!"

The warning to which he had given vent came by no means too soon, for
hardly was John Marshall in his former position than the leader of the
pirates sprang to his feet and once more rushed upon his opponents.

"English dogs!" he shouted in his fury; "for the fall which you have
given me I will make you suffer well. You shall know what it is to
scream with pain, and then--"

He did not finish the sentence, for, failing to notice the second rope,
stretching between the tiller and the bulwark, he came into violent
contact with it, and, as in the former case, fell sprawling upon the
deck. Another second and the active John had plucked him by the coat,
and with a quick heave had sent him sousing into the sea.

"Stay there, you Dutchman!" he cried with a short laugh, "and let that
teach you to be more cautious when next you attack a Britisher. Ah, no
you don't, my beauty!"

The last part of the sentence was addressed to one of the Malay crew,
who, taking advantage of the fact that John Marshall was fully engaged
in dealing with Christian van Sonerell, had crept on all-fours along the
deck, and, feeling in the darkness for the obstacles which had been the
undoing of his comrades, had safely negotiated them, and at that moment
sprang, kriss in hand, to his feet. Then, as the boatswain turned
towards him and gave vent to the words, the Malay darted forward and
lunged at him with his weapon with such swiftness that it was only by
springing swiftly aside that John escaped the blow. Next second the butt
of his pistol crashed into the native's face, and he, too, tumbled full
length beside the binnacle.

"Didn't I tell yer that yer wouldn't do it," growled John in low tones
of excitement. "Jest look out for that other fellow, sir."

"Right!" exclaimed Tyler in reply, "I'm watching carefully, and that
will stop him."

