Hoping to rush in upon the Englishmen while their attention was
distracted, two of the Malay pirates had followed the example set by the
one whom John had stunned with his pistol, but, unfortunately for them,
they had failed to discover the position of the rope with sufficient
celerity, and as they fumbled in the darkness they rose so far from the
crouching position which they had assumed that their heads suddenly
became outlined against the swaying lamp behind. The movement was fatal,
for ere they could avoid the shot Tyler had pointed his weapon in their
direction, and, aided by the feeble rays beyond, had sent a bullet
crashing into the nearest.

"Perhaps that will stop them," he cried in tones which betrayed no
little excitement "These fellows must not be allowed to think that they
are to have it all their own way. Indeed they seem to be inclined to
hang back, and I begin to think that a rush on our part might clear the
decks. They are without a leader, and now is the time to attack them.
Make ready for a charge."

There was little doubt that the proposal which Tyler had so boldly made
might, in the absence of the rascally Dutchman who led the pirates,
have proved more than ordinarily successful, for the losses which they
had already suffered, the unlooked-for manner in which they had been
opposed, and the sudden downfall of Christian van Sonerell, had filled
the Malays with dismay. Some, indeed, had hung back from the very
first, recognizing with the instinct of men possessed of little courage
that danger and death were possibly in store for them. But now, finding
themselves so suddenly arrested in their furious attack, and their
leaders brought crashing to the deck by some unseen means, the remainder
faltered, and, as Tyler's last pistol-shot rang out, to be followed
instantly by the heavy thud of a falling body and by the clatter of a
native kriss upon the deck, they turned about in a body and fled into
the bows, placing as great a distance between themselves and the weapons
of their opponents as was possible. Peering into the darkness, they
looked towards the stern with anxious eyes, and noted with feelings
almost of despair that the two Englishmen whom they had hoped to kill so
easily were stepping across the rope which had formed a barrier between
themselves and their numerous opponents. Indeed, so terror-stricken were
they at the sight that thoughts of flight instantly occurred to them,
and they would have rushed to the boat which had brought them from their
own prahu to the schooner had not a head suddenly appeared over the
bulwark where it was secured. Then an arm came into sight, whilst the
feeble rays of the lamp struggled down upon the dripping figure of a
man clambering over the rail. It was Christian van Sonerell, and at the
sight cries of delight escaped the Malays. They sprang forward to help
him, and then crowded about him while they urged him in pleading tones
to leave the schooner or to lead them once more against the Englishmen.

