"They are too strong for us, and we fear their gun," cried one of them.
"By some means of which we are ignorant they have caused you and others
of our comrades to come crashing to the deck, and see how swiftly fate
has followed them. You, too, also came to grief, and when we saw you
tossed overboard as if you were a child we gave you up for lost, and
seeing that the white-faces were about to turn and rush upon us we
contemplated flight. But you are here once more, you have rejoined us by
a miracle, and we again place ourselves in your hands. Shall we gather
in a body and attack them for the second time, or is it your advice that
we retire and leave these men to themselves? for it is clear that much
suffering will come upon us before they are conquered."

"Leave them! Fly like hounds from the schooner and forsake the spoil
which is already in our hands! Surely you are children to make such
a proposal! You laugh at me and would make believe that you are
frightened!" cried Christian van Sonerell, turning suddenly upon
them, and staring each one in the face as if he would read his inmost
thoughts. "Leave the vessel when there is gold below, and when we
have expended so much time and patience to take her! You are joking
and cannot mean what you say. You see for yourselves that the two
English fools have been favoured by luck, and, taking advantage of
my disappearance, have been bold enough even to think of driving you
from the deck. Now look at them. As I came climbing over the rail they
hesitated, and now have retreated to their old position, out of which we
will drive them. Forward, my men! Follow Christian van Sonerell!"

While the rascally Dutchman had been haranguing his men, Tyler and his
companion had paused to discuss the question of attacking the Malays.
A moment before they were intent upon rushing upon them, for that
they were disheartened and demoralized was easily to be seen. But the
aspect of affairs had suddenly changed, and as Christian van Sonerell
had remarked, his unexpected appearance had caused them to alter their
determination.

