"They have gathered in a body again," cried Tyler, stretching out an
arm to detain John Marshall, "and see, there is their leader. What bad
luck for us! For I had hoped that he had disappeared over the side for
good. But he is with his men again, and there is no doubt that he will
persuade them to renew the attack. Stand back, John, and employ the
breathing-space allowed us in reloading our weapons. Then we shall be
prepared to fight them again."

"Ay, that we will, sir," was the ready answer; "we'll stand by one
another as firm as two rocks, and when things get too warm for us, why,
we'll be over the stern before they can look round. But I reckon that
this time it will be a case for the gun."

"I think so too," agreed Tyler, looking along the deck and noting with
some concern that the mood of the pirates had already changed. "Their
leader is no doubt telling them of the gold and stores below, and of the
riches they will lose if they retreat. Depend upon it, now that they
know of the presence of the ropes they will hack them asunder and come
at us in a body. Well, if they do I'm fully prepared."

At the words he thrust one hand into his pocket and commenced to rapidly
replace the emptied cartridges in his revolver. Then, flicking a few
more grains of powder into the touch-hole of the gun, lest by chance a
gust of wind or some sudden jolt during the past conflict should have
disturbed the fuse which he had already prepared, he placed the muzzle
of his weapon across the top of the hole, and held it there in readiness
to send a charge of grape bursting through the ranks of the pirates. As
for John Marshall, the success which they had already enjoyed, the fact
that it was he who had tossed the Dutchman overboard, and the example
of coolness which Tyler had set him seemed to have raised his spirits
to the highest. With a short reckless laugh he, too, commenced to cram
cartridges into his weapons, and having completed the operation to his
satisfaction, stood close beside his companion, one hand resting upon
the bulwark and his eyes fixed upon the gathering of natives beyond.

