"Helloo!" he suddenly exclaimed, as the rays from the swinging lamp
fell upon a figure ascending from the cabin below, "there's our friend
the interpreter, looking a little upset after the blow I've given him.
Just stand aside, Mr. Richardson, while I take a shot at the fellow.
He's only a murderer, and if we treat him like a dog, neither he nor his
comrades can complain."

Lifting his left arm till the wrist was on a level with his eyes, John
Marshall rested the muzzle of one of his weapons there, and took steady
aim at the bulky figure of Hans Schlott, which could be seen in the
companion-way. Squinting along the barrel, he was in the act of pulling
the trigger when a movement on the part of the criminal disturbed his
aim. Indeed it almost seemed as though Hans Schlott had dreamt of the
danger threatening him, for in spite of the fact that the figures of the
two young Englishmen were with difficulty visible through the darkness
which covered the vessel, he suddenly ducked and disappeared below,
the movement undoubtedly saving his life. A minute later he reappeared
from the direction of the bows, having crawled to the deck by way of
the men's quarters. Then he staggered towards Christian van Sonerell,
as if still suffering from the stunning blow which John Marshall had
delivered, and at once commenced to address him.

"On them!" he shrieked in high-pitched tones, which grated upon Tyler's
ears. "Rush at them, and sweep them out of existence, for if you do not,
I tell you that we are doomed. Our lives will not be safe for another
hour, for one of them, known to us as John Marshall, happened by ill
chance to be in the cabin when I fired. He saw the deed, and I know
well that neither he nor the other young fool will rest until we are
captured. They must not escape! We must kill them, and then send their
bodies to the bottom of the sea with some pounds of shot at their feet.
Quick, I say, or even now, when the odds are against them, they will
give us the slip, and bring a certain end to our fortunes."

