He gripped Christian van Sonerell by the arm so fiercely that the latter
almost winced, while he bellowed the words in his ear as if the Dutchman
were a mile away. Then, leaning against the bulwarks to support his
unsteady weight, he shook his fist with frantic energy at the two dim
figures to be seen in the stern, and called loudly to them.

"Listen to me, you fools of Englishmen!" he shouted. "You think that
because you have resisted us so far you will escape us altogether. But
I tell you that that will not be the case. For lives which you have
already taken you shall pay, and I prophesy that within five minutes
both of you will be slain like your comrade below. Him I killed with my
weapon, and see now, this is for you, Tyler Richardson."

Scarcely had the words left his lips than a pistol-shot rang out, and
a bullet struck heavily against the front of the binnacle, shattering
there into a hundred fragments, which splashed the two young fellows
standing beyond. A moment later Tyler's voice broke the silence.

"A bad shot and an unsteady hand," he called out. "Now, hear my words,
Hans Schlott, and you, too, who have aided him in this murderous attack.
I swear that if I escape from this ship with my life I will never rest
till I have hunted you down, for you are murderers. In cold blood you
yourself killed my comrade, and for that act you shall be punished. Now,
take my advice, leave the ship at once, for if you attack I will fire
the gun and blow you to atoms."

That the warning to which he had given vent caused consternation amongst
the Malay pirates was evident, for up to this they had imagined that
owing to the suddenness of their attack, and to its unexpected nature,
the six-pounder in the stern of the schooner was harmless, and that
Tyler's behaviour in arranging a fuse and tossing the covering aside
was merely a blind with which to frighten them. Now, however, his own
words assured them of the fact, for quite a few were able to understand
their meaning, and instantly those who from the first had been inclined
to show the white feather retreated to the bows of the ship, where
they displayed every sign of terror. But it was not likely that two
desperate men such as the Dutchmen were would permit themselves to be
baulked of their prey in such a manner. Indeed, so carefully had their
plans been made, so completely did Hans Schlott imagine that he had
hoodwinked the leader of the expedition and his companions, that he
was convinced that the sudden attack, the rising of the crew, and the
arrival of a boat-load of Malay pirates had been unforeseen, and that
plans for defence were wholly unprepared. Thanks to the secrecy which
Tyler had observed, the crafty interpreter was ignorant of the fact
that a conspiracy was suspected, and at the news that Tyler ventured to
give him he openly scoffed, and at once turned to reassure the native
following.

