"He lies!" he shouted. "Until I fired he was walking the deck half in
his sleep, while his two companions lay below resting in their bunks.
But for the weapons which they carry in their belts they have not a
cartridge between them, while I swear to you that the gun is empty.
Come, lead our men forward, Van Sonerell, and clear these Englishmen
from our way."

"Head the charge yourself," was the answer, "and show us that you too
are able to fight. For myself, I will rush at them by your side, and do
my best to help you; but much must not be expected of me, for, see here,
my strength is gone, and I am weak with loss of blood."

He pointed to his left shoulder, where Tyler's bullet had struck, and
showed a large red patch which oozed through the cloth, and, mingled
with the salt water with which his garment was saturated, splashed
heavily to the deck.

"Then join me and do your best," cried Hans Schlott, roused to
desperation by the thought that if Tyler and his companion escaped there
would be no peace for him, at any rate, in the neighbourhood of Borneo.
"Forward, my men, for I swear to you that you have nothing but their
pistols to fear. The gun contains air alone, and can do you no harm," he
continued, turning to the Malay crew. "Come, we will rush at them and
bear them from the deck."

Snatching a cutlass from one of them, he waited to see that they were
ready to aid him, and then came full tilt along the deck, his eyes
fixed upon the six-pounder, which was dimly visible, and the direction
of which he endeavoured to make out. A few seconds and he satisfied
himself that the muzzle was presenting to the right, and instantly he
changed the course of his frantic charge and came rushing along the
opposite side of the deck. As for his companions in villainy, they too
came towards the stern at their fastest pace, and, scattering as much
as the narrow space between the bulwarks would allow, charged upon the
young Englishmen, careless of the presence of the gun which Hans Schlott
had assured them was empty. And all the while Tyler and his solitary
companion stood there awaiting the conflict with steady courage, but
with the certain knowledge that on this occasion they would be beaten
back. Holding their fire until Hans Schlott and his Dutch comrade were
within a few yards, they levelled their weapons steadily, and at a word
from Tyler firmly pressed upon the trigger. Four times in succession did
they discharge a bullet into the ranks of the attackers, and on each
occasion one of the Malay crew threw his arms into the night and came
crashing to the deck. But in spite of their efforts to bring down the
leaders, Hans Schlott and Christian van Sonerell still remained unharmed
upon their feet, seeming by a miracle to escape the bullets intended
for them. Determined to slay the two Englishmen who stood between them
and the rich prize which had aroused their cupidity, and brave in the
knowledge that they had nothing to fear from the gun, they came on
without a pause, and before Tyler could have thought it possible were
at the binnacle. At once down came Hans Schlott's cutlass, severing the
tightly-stretched cable with such swiftness that it flew aside with a
twang, while the weapon itself hit the planks beneath and penetrated
deeply. A wrench, and the blade was withdrawn, while the Dutchman
prepared to sever the second and only remaining barrier which stretched
between him and the Englishmen.

