"Stand aside!" shouted Tyler in warning tones, seeing that ere a minute
had passed he and his companion would be overwhelmed "They are massed in
a body, and will be upon us if we do not check them. Now, I will fire
the gun, and dive overboard immediately afterwards."

"Fire!" bellowed John, as if to encourage his young leader. "Blow them
all clear of the decks."

Swiftly placing the muzzle of his revolver against the top of the
touch-hole, Tyler waited an instant to assure himself that his friend
was clear of the discharge, and that the critical time had arrived.
Then, steeling himself to the task, he pulled at the pistol, sending a
livid flash against the breach of the gun. Fizz! The powder spluttered
up in his face, giving out a column of dense smoke, which was swallowed
up instantly by the sulphurous vapour which poured from the muzzle.
There was a loud roar as the six-pounder spoke out into the night, and
then, ere the echo had died down, and long before Hans Schlott and
his accomplice could dart to the rear of the gun and fall upon the
Englishmen, Tyler and John Marshall had sprung clear of the deck and
were swimming through the deep water which surrounded the schooner.

"For the dinghy!" said Tyler as he came to the surface, shaking the salt
water out of his eyes. "But silence, or they will learn where we are and
fire into us."

"They are over the side, and will escape us," bellowed Hanns Schlott,
peering over the bulwark in his endeavour to pierce the darkness. "Stand
still, all of you, and hold your tongues, you men. Now, listen! Where
are they?"

"Swimming for their dinghy or I am mistaken," said Christian van
Sonerell with an oath. "She lies directly aft, where the tide has set
her, and if we fire in that direction we shall blow them out of the
craft. Here, get aboard our own boat some of you lads, and after the
English pigs. Now, Hanns, level your pistols and let go."

The two Dutchmen at once leaned over the rail as far as they were
able, and having judged what must be the position of the dinghy, fired
together in that direction. But only the echoes from the neighbouring
shore answered the reports, while the surface of the water, which had
momentarily been lit by the flash from their weapons, again disappeared
in the gloom of the night.

