"Missed!" growled Hanns Schlott. "It seems to me that we might as well
expect to hit a fly under the circumstances. Let us not waste our time,
but send a party after them at once. Fortunately we have a boat at our
service, and can follow them. Take charge of the vessel while I go with
our men and hunt down these Englishmen."

"Do so," answered his comrade faintly, for now that the excitement of
the contest was gone he was beginning to feel the effect of his wound.
"After them, Hanns, my friend, and do not rest till you have killed
them; for remember that one of them witnessed the shot which killed
their leader, while if that were not sufficient to bring us to the
gallows, their evidence as to this act of piracy would certainly lead to
the loss of our lives."

"I will hunt the island. I will follow as though they were rats upon
whose extermination I am determined. Make your mind easy, Christian van
Sonerell; this is a matter which concerns my safety perhaps more than
your own, for I am the man who killed this Mr. Beverley. I will go to
the end of the world to capture them, and when I have them in my hands,
ah--!"

He clenched his fists in the darkness, and ground his teeth with rage.
Then, realizing that if he was to have the smallest hope of success he
must not delay, he turned swiftly about, and, forgetful of the throbbing
pain in his head, which had followed John's lusty blow, went racing
along the deck to the point where the boat was made fast. Already a crew
of willing Malays were seated in it, and as soon as the bulky Dutchman
had lowered himself into the bows, one of the former threw off the
painter and sent the boat away from the schooner with a vigorous thrust
from his foot.

"Pull!" shouted Hanns Schlott, using the Malay tongue. "An extra share
of the prize if you lay hands upon these English dogs. Indeed, I myself
will give a special reward to anyone who is successful in killing them.
Pull! Let us not waste time, for if we are swift we shall overtake them
ere they reach the shore."

