Dipping their long oars into the water, the crew of pirates sent the
boat on her course, and within a few seconds she was well away from the
schooner, with her nose directed for the island of Borneo. Meanwhile,
what had happened to Tyler and his friend?

Once their heads had risen free of the water, they had turned towards
the point where they imagined the dinghy would be, and after swimming
a few strokes had the good fortune to come across her in the darkness.
At once each grasped her by the gunwale, and hung on there while they
prepared for the final effort of climbing in. Suddenly, however, an idea
occurred to Tyler.

"No," he whispered, seeing that John was about to hoist himself up, "do
not get into the boat yet awhile, for then we should be easy targets if
they caught sight of us. Let us swim beside her, and push her away from
the schooner."

"The very thing, sir! There's the painter, and now I've slipped it from
the ring. I reckon that they will follow towards the shore, for what
would take us in the direction of the open sea?"

"Then we'll do what they least expect," said Tyler sharply. "That way,
John, and when we are a hundred yards from the ship let us lie still and
listen. Then we shall learn what steps they are taking to capture us,
and can make our plans accordingly."

Acting on this advice, they silently pushed the small craft out to sea,
swimming with one hand in the water and the other grasping the gunwale.
Soon they had put quite a respectable distance between themselves and
their enemies, and at a jerk from Tyler, who back-watered with his feet,
and so attracted his comrade's attention, they hung without a movement
in the deep water, and listened eagerly for sounds of the pursuers.

"I heard pistols fired," said Tyler softly. "The sea was about my ears
and deadened the sound, but for all that I am sure that they fired.
Perhaps they thought that they saw us in the darkness, or, more likely,
they let go their bullets in the hope of making a lucky shot."

