"That's the case, I reckon," answered John. "But steady, sir, the sound
of a voice carries far across the sea on a still night like this. Listen
to that. They are in their boat, and are after us. I can hear that
ruffian's voice."

Once again both were silent, while they turned their faces towards the
shore and listened carefully. Yes, there could be no doubt about the
matter, for Hanns Schlott's voice broke the stillness of the night as he
urged his men at their oars.

"To the shore!" he shouted. "I will give a handful of dollars to the man
who lays his fingers upon them dead or alive. Can anyone see or hear
them?"

No answer was made to his question, though many eyes were staring into
the darkness, and, therefore, without further delay they pulled on
for the shore, hoping to capture the fugitives as they landed, or, if
fortune were kind to them, to arrive on the shore of Borneo before the
white men could reach it, and there lay a trap into which they would
fall. As for Tyler and John Marshall, they clung to the frail boat for
many minutes as she lay there motionless in the water, listening with
all their ears for sounds of the pirates. So calm was the atmosphere,
and so still the night, that, as the latter had remarked, the slightest
sound travelled along the surface of the sea in a remarkable manner, and
could be heard quite a distance away. Thanks to this fact, the splash of
oars as the boat was rowed away from them reached their ears distinctly,
as did also the hoarse commands of the Dutchman who accompanied the
searchers as he gave the order to cease pulling. Then there was silence
once more, and for many minutes the gentle lap of water against the
frail sides of the dinghy could alone be heard.

"We will tire their patience out by remaining where we are," whispered
Tyler, "and fortunately for us the water is so warm that we are not
likely to become chilled by remaining in it for a long period. Perhaps
they will imagine that we have already landed, and in that case they
will not venture to go far afield, for the night is too dark for
pursuit. An hour or more of waiting may convince them that it is useless
to remain, and as soon as they return to the schooner we will swim
towards the land."

