"And supposing they remain ashore till the morning?" asked John Marshall
in anxious tones. "In that case we should certainly be taken, unless, of
course, we waited for, say, a couple of hours and then pushed our boat
away to the right or left, so as to land farther up or down the coast."

"It is a good idea, John," answered Tyler thoughtfully, "and if the
pirates show signs of their determination to waylay us in the morning we
will do as you say. For the present, however, I feel sure that we are
acting for the best by lying quietly here. Our movements in the future
must depend upon circumstances, though you may be sure of this, that
whatever happens we will not be taken without a struggle. Unfortunately
our weapons are practically useless, for the cartridges will have been
destroyed by the water."

"I don't know so much," whispered John hastily, "for just as I was going
overboard I thought of the matter and crammed a handful into my cap,
while I jammed it firmly down upon my head. It's made of thick pilot
cloth, and as I was only under the surface for a few seconds, it's
possible that the ammunition has escaped. Look here!"

Pulling himself a little higher out of the water, he leaned his chin on
the gunwale and gently drew his cap from his head. Then, one by one, he
picked some twenty or more cartridges from the lining and placed them
upon one of the seats.

"Not even damp," he said in low tones of delight. "Now, let's have the
revolvers and place them here to dry. The water will quickly drain away
from them, and in half an hour or so they will be fit for use again."

Dragging their weapons from their belts or pockets, as the young
boatswain had suggested, they placed them within the boat with open
breeches and muzzles pointing downwards. Then, satisfied that they had
done all that was possible, they once more turned their attention to the
schooner, and to the pirates who had landed upon the shore.

"Hush!" whispered Tyler earnestly, some little time later, as a voice
came reverberating across the water. "Someone is talking, and I think
that it is the Dutchman."

