"Sure enough, sir," agreed John, "and what's more, he's hailing the
schooner. I wonder what he's saying!"

Both listened attentively, but owing to their ignorance of the Dutch
language could make nothing of what they heard. That it was Hanns
Schlott whose hail had come across the water, was evident, for both
Tyler and John were well acquainted with the tones of his voice. Then
someone shouted an answer back from the deck of the schooner, and again,
in spite of the small knowledge that they had of Christian van Sonerell,
they were certain that it was he who responded to his friend.

"There is some movement afoot," remarked Tyler, placing his lips as
close to John's ear as their respective positions would allow. "And
hark! there is someone moving ashore. Yes, I heard the boat splash as
she was run into the water, and there is the clatter of oars."

Clinging there, with their heads just above the surface and their ears
clear of the sea, both Tyler and his companion could hear the sounds
as though they were made close at hand. Indeed, the calm sea, with its
unruffled surface, seemed to accentuate the sounds and transmit them
with such clearness that, though some hundreds of feet away, the noise
of an oar falling into its place in the rowlock, and the splash as the
blade was dipped, were heard as though close at hand. Then, at a word of
command from Hanns Schlott, the boat shot from the shore, and the sound
of many oars forcing her through the water came to their ears.

"Going back to the schooner," whispered Tyler. "Have they given up the
chase and decided to content themselves with the vessel as a prize, or
are they merely returning there until the day dawns and allows them to
carry on the pursuit with energy? We will wait and keep watch, and if
there is no movement after an hour or more we will follow your plan."

"And what if they are just going aboard to get more men?" said John
Marshall eagerly. "Yer see, sir, it's a long stretch of coast to set a
watch on, and that Dutch rascal is cute enough to know it. Supposing
that's his game, then we shall find escape more difficult still, and
shall have to swim a good mile or more to get clear of the watchers."

