"And when we touched the land we should never know whether we were
beyond them or not," replied Tyler thoughtfully. "How many men do you
think went ashore with Hanns Schlott?"

"Just about the number that come aboard with the other rascal, sir."

"And how many do you suppose are now aboard the schooner, John?"

"Ten at the most, and that's an outside figure," was the unhesitating
answer. "I reckon that the Dutchman cleared off with his own fellows,
leaving behind the crew which manned the schooner."

"Then we will change our plans, and for the present will decide not to
go ashore," said Tyler resolutely. "If Hanns Schlott has come to fetch
more men, as I feel sure he has, we will wait until he and the crew have
reached the shore again. Then, John, my friend, we will float silently
down upon the schooner, and will do our best to take possession of our
property. We have arms at hand to help us, and if only we can effect a
complete surprise we should be able to drive the pirates from the deck.
Steady! The boat has just reached the vessel, and by the sounds which
come to us I feel sure that some of the crew are entering her."

That this was the case was quickly evident, for within a few minutes
the splash of oars again sounded across the water, while the pirates'
boat was pulled towards the shore, this time manned by more men than had
accompanied her on her outward journey.




CHAPTER VI

Courage Wins the Day


For long did Tyler Richardson and his companion John Marshall maintain
silence as they clung to the boat, for they were conscious that the
slightest sound, even a gentle splash or hasty movement in the water,
might declare their whereabouts to the pirates who still remained upon
the schooner. Scarcely daring to breathe, they listened eagerly, and ere
long had convinced themselves that Hanns Schlott had returned to the
vessel for one purpose alone, and that was to obtain more men, whom he
might place at intervals along that part of the coast of Borneo, there
to wait for the landing of the Englishmen. Indeed, had there been any
doubt in Tyler's mind, the squeaking of the oars and the more frequent
splash of paddles told him at once that a greater number were in the
boat on this occasion. Then, too, resting there as he did with his eyes
on a level with the surface, the schooner every now and again became
dimly silhouetted against the stars, and by peering steadily in her
direction the feeble rays of the riding-lamp enabled him to distinguish
some half-dozen figures which alone seemed to occupy the deck.

