"Give Hanns Schlott and his rascals half an hour to reach the shore and
separate," he whispered in John's ear. "Then we will float slowly down
upon the schooner, and endeavour to make the boat fast. After that we
will climb aboard and see how matters stand, though I am determined,
whatever the odds, to regain possession of her."

An hour later silence had once more settled down upon the neighbourhood,
and though the two young fellows had been careful to listen all the
while, nothing had occurred to arouse anxiety. Once Hanns Schlott and
his boat-load of Malays had reached the shore there had been confused
shouts and words of command, but these had quickly died down as the
pirates separated and went to their stations. An occasional cry denoted
the fact that they were still within hearing, but very soon they were
silent, and once more stillness came over the sea.

"Now for the schooner!" whispered Tyler in tones which he endeavoured
to steady; "come to the stern of the boat, John, and help me to shove
her along. But first let us discuss our plans so that there shall be
no confusion. We must make for our old position, and if it is possible
we must contrive to load the six-pounder again. Otherwise there may be
sufficient men aboard to rush upon us and sweep us into the sea."

"Not if we once get safely on her deck," answered John Marshall
stubbornly. "It'll want more than the crew of Malays to turn us out,
I reckon. Jest you take a bit of advice from me, Mr. Richardson, and
when we get aboard go tooth and nail for those fellows. A rush, a few
shots into their midst, and some hard knocks with our fists'll send 'em
leaping overboard, and once that's the case we'll up anchor and away.
Then our turn will come to talk to these Dutchmen, and Hanns Schlott and
his comrade shall take our place. We'll turn the tables on 'em, sir,
and do our best to capture 'em. But I'm under your orders, and ready to
obey."

Having given vent to his feelings, the boatswain moved gently along
the gunwale till he joined Tyler at the stern, when the two at once
commenced to push the dinghy towards the schooner. With shoulders sunk
beneath the surface, and finger-tips alone resting upon the edge of the
boat, they urged her gently through the sea, halting every now and again
to make sure that they were unobserved. At last they arrived close to
their destination, and at once, at a nudge from Tyler, turned towards
the stern.

