"Now for the painter!" whispered the latter. "Remain where you are while
I go for'ard. When you feel the boat shaking you will know that all is
in readiness, and can creep along towards me."

A moment later he had disappeared in the darkness, and though his
companion peered in the direction which he had taken he could see no
sign of him. A gentle splash, however, told that he was moving, and ere
long a sharp dip as the dinghy was pulled to one side told him that
Tyler had been successful. At once the sailor commenced to move towards
him, and soon found himself beside his leader and directly beneath the
schooner's stern.

"We are in luck," whispered Tyler, placing his lips close to John's
ears, "for one of the ropes which stretched from the binnacle, and was
severed by Hanns Schlott, is trailing over the side and will help us to
ascend. Here it is. Keep the tail of it in your hand while I swarm up,
and be ready to follow immediately."

Without further explanation he thrust the end of the cable into his
companion's hand, and then, grasping the other portion, slowly raised
himself out of the water. Lifting one hand above the other, it was not
long before his fingers lit upon the bulwarks, and at once relinquishing
the rope, he clambered over on to the deck, where he was soon joined by
John Marshall.

"Now let us lie down and listen," he whispered. "Then if anyone is about
we shall get notice of their presence before they catch sight of us, and
shall know how to act. If the decks are empty we will creep below and
will see what can be done in the way of ammunition."

Crouching close to the bulwarks they lay for some five minutes without
venturing to move, peering all the while into the darkness to discover,
if possible, some trace of the Malays. But not a soul was to be seen,
and though they left their hiding-place and crept into the bows, no
trace could be found of the pirates.

"All sleeping below," whispered John Marshall with a chuckle, "and
taking it easy after the fight. The Dutchman will be down in the cabin,
occupying one of our bunks, for all the world as though he were owner
of the vessel, but we'll turn him out in double-quick time and give him
cause to regret the fact that he failed to set a watch. What's the next
move, sir?"

