"Remain on deck while I go below," answered Tyler promptly. "But wait,
we have forgotten our revolvers, and must return for them. Slip along to
the stern with me and I will drop into the dinghy and hand them up to
you. That done, we shall feel more confidence, and shall have something
with which to defend ourselves should the crew discover our presence.
Now, stand by!"

Taking care to impart his orders in a whisper, Tyler quickly reached the
stern and once more grasped the rope. Then, swinging himself over the
rail, he lowered himself till his feet touched the water within a few
inches of the dinghy. Groping in the darkness as he dangled there it was
not long before his toe struck with a gentle tap against the gunwale,
and at once he began to draw the boat towards him. A moment later he was
safely on board, and had grasped the weapons for which he had returned.
A glance above showed him John Marshall's figure stretching out towards
him, and ere long the revolvers and the cartridges had been safely
transferred.

"Load them," he said shortly, as soon as he had reached the deck once
more. "That's right, and now we shall be ready for this Dutchman and
his Malays. Come with me to the companion, John, and wait there while I
descend. If you hear a suspicious sound, tap the deck gently with your
foot so as to warn me, but whatever you do be careful not to raise a
shout, for then they would know at once that we were on board."

Waiting only to make sure that the sailor understood his meaning, he
stepped upon the ladder and descended rapidly. Arrived below, he lay
down upon the floor of the cabin and listened breathlessly, till the
sound of heavy breathing from the farther end told him that Christian
van Sonerell was sleeping there.

"Let him wait," murmured Tyler beneath his breath. "Once the gun is
loaded and we are in readiness, we will drive him and those of the
Malays who remain aboard into the sea, where they must swim for their
lives. It is the only way in which we can deal with them, for if we
endeavoured to make them prisoners by securing them down below we should
never know what it was to enjoy a moment's peace until we fell in with
friends, while we should run the risk of having our plans suddenly
upset, and the tables turned upon us with a vengeance. Now for the
magazine!"

