Creeping across the floor it was not long before he arrived at the
door in the bulkhead which gave admission to the cupboard in which the
powder and shot carried by the schooner was stored. Fortunately he had
failed to lock it on the previous evening, so that a gentle twist of the
handle released the catch and allowed him to enter. After that he had
no difficulty in obtaining what he wanted, for he had helped to place
the ammunition in the cabin before leaving Singapore, and knew the exact
position of the bags of powder and shot. Very soon he was outside the
magazine once more, and having crept cautiously across the cabin, went
staggering up the ladder bearing a couple of bags over each shoulder.

"To the stern!" he whispered, as John Marshall's face came into view,
"and get ready to help me with the gun. After that we'll cut away the
anchor and make ready to hoist the sail."

"It'll be a big job for the two of us alone," was the sailor's whispered
answer. "But we can get a foresail on her at any rate, and that will
take us out to sea. Give me hold of one of them bags, sir. They're a
tidy weight, and want a little carrying."

Taking a couple of the sacks which contained the ammunition, he went
softly along the deck with Tyler until they had reached the stern,
where their burdens were deposited beside the gun. Then silently, and
with every precaution to avoid making a sound which would arouse the
Malays, they crammed a charge of powder into the six-pounder, and rammed
down upon it a couple of bags of grape. A piece of sacking over all
helped to keep the bullets in position, and destroyed all chance of
their rolling from the muzzle should it be found necessary to depress
the weapon.

"And now for the anchor," said Tyler when the work had been completed to
his satisfaction.

"Jest leave that to me," was the whispered answer. "I'll let it go for
good and all by cutting the cable. It's lucky for us that we haven't a
chain one aboard, for then we'd certainly have made a noise when freeing
it. As for another anchor, there's a couple stowed away in the locker
below."

