Slipping to the stern-rail he quickly laid hold of the cable, and,
drawing his knife from his pocket, severed it at one attempt. Then he
rejoined Tyler, and as if to show his coolness, indeed, as if he already
considered that the schooner had returned to the keeping of those who
had a good right to her, and Tyler was his commander, he touched his hat
briskly and asked what the next order might be.

"The sail," said Tyler shortly. "We'll hoist the foresail and leave the
others till later. But we must show some canvas, for otherwise those
fellows ashore will be after us with their boat, and, besides, we have
to think of the prahu. But one thing at a time. Let us get the sail up
and then discuss other matters. Now into the bows!"

Slipping along the deck once more, they passed the entrance to the cabin
like ghosts, and halted for a few seconds to listen. Then, satisfied
that Christian van Sonerell was sleeping peacefully, if a murderer and
a pirate can do so at all, they crept on into the bows and at once set
about hoisting the foresail. But here their difficulties were greater,
for beneath them rested the Malays who were still aboard, men with the
sharpest ears, and, moreover, sailors who slept but lightly. That
Tyler and his companion could hope to do all that they wished without
discovery was almost impossible, and neither would be surprised to be
disturbed in the midst of the work.

"Up with it now!" said Tyler quickly. "All is ready for hoisting, and
if only we can get it in position we shall feel more secure. But I hear
someone moving. Don't stop, but finish the job at once."

That someone had heard their steps above, or the clatter of a falling
rope, quickly became evident, for as they tugged and strained, a head
suddenly emerged from the hatchway leading to the men's quarters, while
a pair of sleepy eyes peered round in the half-darkness.

"I heard sounds," murmured the man, while Tyler and John Marshall
crouched motionless upon the deck. "A rope fell, and I even thought
that I distinguished a step. But no one is about. We have driven the
beggarly white men off the ship, and but for a few of us who are lucky
to be left, all are gone ashore there to waylay the Englishmen. Perhaps
our brothers have returned, and have not cared to awake us. It surely
cannot be our enemies who have been bold enough to attempt to take the
schooner!"

