He scoffed at the thought, and hearing no sound to awake his suspicions,
and seeing no sign of his comrades, he turned and began to descend.
Suddenly, however, aided by the feeble rays from the swinging lantern,
his eyes fell upon the two crouching figures, and for a moment he was
dumbfounded with astonishment. Then he peered in their direction, and,
suddenly coming to the conclusion that danger threatened, he slid below
at his fastest pace, shouting so as to arouse his companions.

"The dogs are upon us!" he cried, rushing at the sleeping figures and
shaking them fiercely. "Rise and prepare for fighting, for I tell you
that the ship is taken, and that the Englishmen have returned."

"Impossible!" growled one of the Malays, sitting up and rubbing his
eyes. "Consider; they are but two, while there are seven of us in all,
not counting our Dutch leader. You are mistaken, and have been suffering
from a nightmare."

"Impossible, do you say?" was the heated answer. "I am not dreaming, and
I say to you that unless you make a movement to protect yourself, you
will quickly be killed. Ho, all of you! We are attacked! The ship is
taken!"

Meanwhile Tyler and his comrade had been busily at work. Realizing that
they still had a few moments before them while the native crew were
aroused and informed of their presence, they threw themselves upon the
sail, and by dint of tugging together at the rope managed to hoist
it into position. Then they fled back to the stern and began to make
preparations for defence.

"I can feel that we are under weigh," said Tyler, peering over the
side. "That is capital, and now all that we have to do is to drive the
crew overboard, and then clear away from the prahu. What course do you
propose, John?"

"Along the island," was the emphatic answer. "Yer see, sir, we've the
prahu to think about, and have to make our plans to get clear away from
her as well as from Hans Schlott and his villains. If we had a couple
or more men aboard to lend us their help we should be able to pile more
sail upon her, but as it is, two will not be capable of doing the work,
at least not in a hurry. Then those native boats sail like the wind, and
would overtake us easily."

