"Then your suggestion is that we should coast along the island, and if
pursued by the prahu slip into some creek."

"Just so, sir; and what's more, we'll have to abandon the schooner, I
expect, for otherwise they would be down upon us, and once our guns have
been fired would easily capture us. Better to take to the swamps of the
forest than have our throats cut by these rascals."

"Hush!" whispered Tyler at this moment, "Christian van Sonerell is
coming up the ladder and the struggle will soon begin. We will wait
until all have reached the deck, and then we will call upon them to
leave the vessel. If they refuse, or do not instantly obey, we will
begin to fire amongst them, and I fancy that the contents of the
six-pounder will help them to make up their minds. Stand ready!"

As he spoke, the faint gleams of the lamp which still burned in
the rigging showed them the figure of the Dutchman standing in the
companion-way, while directly afterwards the crew of Malays who had been
left upon the schooner came climbing from their quarters, shouting in
frightened voices to one another.

"What is this commotion?" demanded the Dutchman angrily, for he was
annoyed at having his sleep disturbed. "You cry out like babies who have
been hurt, and one would think that a boat-load of British sailors was
about to board us. Go back to your quarters and let us rest at peace
during the remainder of the night, for remember, we have had many hours
of hard work, and I have a wound which troubles me."

Turning upon the Malays fiercely he shook his fist in their direction,
and growled out the words in surly tones.

"But I tell you that we are attacked," cried one of the natives rushing
up to him. "Only a few moments ago I saw two figures crouching in the
bows. The lamp which swings aloft lit the dark corner in which they hid,
and at once I recognized them as the hated white men. I tell you that we
are attacked, that these Englishmen have climbed aboard while we in our
foolishness slept, and have captured the schooner."

