"Silence, idiot!" shouted Christian van Sonerell, stepping towards the
man. "The vessel captured by the two fugitives! Why, if they have dared
to come aboard it will be at the cost of their lives. Where are they?
Point them out to me and I will soon show you who is the owner of this
schooner."

"There is no need for you to be told where we are," called out Tyler
at this instant, "for we are back in our old position, and while you
slept have contrived to load the gun. It is crammed to the muzzle with
bullets, and I will fire the charge amongst you if you do not instantly
leave. Overboard with every one of you! I give you five seconds in which
to disappear."

Had a bomb-shell suddenly fallen at the feet of the Dutchman he could
not have been more startled or more taken aback, for he had never
dreamed that the fugitives would dare to return to the schooner. Indeed,
he had taken it for granted that ere he awoke in the morning Hanns
Schlott and the men who were with him would have laid hands upon them
and killed them instantly. And now to be awakened suddenly, before the
morning had dawned, and to come on deck to find that the Englishmen
had returned, was a surprise, a piece of news which astounded him. At
Tyler's words he started back as if he had been shot, while his face
flushed with indignation and with rage at the commands which had been
given.

"Leave the ship," he cried hoarsely, "and at the bidding of two who are
little more than children! Their insolence astonishes me, and for the
moment takes my breath away. Listen, you two. You have fallen into a
trap, and had better relinquish your arms. Surrender at once and my men
will bind you."

"Fire!" shouted Tyler, who had been carefully counting the seconds.
"Empty your revolver amongst them!"

Levelling their weapons at the Malay crew, the two opened upon them
without hesitation, a shriek and the thud of a falling body answering
the first shot. Then a faint-hearted attempt was made to charge towards
the stern, led by the burly Dutchman. But a lucky bullet happening to
strike the leader, checked the natives almost instantly, and, realizing
at once that they were no match for the two Englishmen, who had already
shown how stubbornly they could fight, the natives ran towards the
bulwarks and jumped overboard. As for Tyler and his companion, they
sprang to the spot and discharged their weapons into the sea in the hope
of hitting some of the fugitives, but without success. Then they turned
to the prostrate figure of the Dutchman and closely inspected it.

