"Dead!" said the former quietly, rolling Christian van Sonerell upon his
back. "The bullet struck him fair between the eyes and must have killed
him instantly."

"Then he is a lucky man," cried John Marshall, "for had he lived and
escaped from the schooner he would, sooner or later, have come to the
gallows for this act of piracy. As it is, Hanns Schlott alone is left,
and we will hunt him down until he is captured and brought to justice."

"We will," agreed Tyler earnestly, "for remember, the Dutchman, who
still lives, has his hands stained with the blood of our leader. You
yourself witnessed the murder, and for that base crime he shall hang.
I swear to hunt him down, for otherwise, if I relinquish the matter
he will go unpunished, and will still continue to rob and murder in
these seas. But this man is dead, and therefore had better be tossed
overboard. Let us search his pockets and then do as I have said."

Kneeling beside the body of the Dutchman they rapidly ransacked his
pockets, and having abstracted some papers and other objects of little
importance, bore the lifeless figure to the side. Then with a heave they
sent all that remained of Christian van Sonerell splashing into the sea.

"And now to set our course," said Tyler. "Go to the stern, John, and
take the tiller, for you are a practised seaman, while I am little more
than a novice. I will go into the bows and dowse the lamp, for it would
never do to leave it hanging there. Then I shall creep below and search
every corner of the vessel to see that none of the Malays remain. Just
keep your ears and eyes open, my lad, for the shouting and the report of
our revolvers must have been heard ashore by Hanns Schlott and his men,
while those who plunged overboard will quickly reach the land, for these
natives are excellent swimmers."

Waiting to see John Marshall go into the stern and grasp the tiller,
he felt for the line by which the riding-lamp was hoisted and rapidly
lowered it to the deck. Then he took it in his hand and descended
into the cabin. Here, as he fully expected, he found everything in
confusion. Pillows and blankets lay scattered upon the floor where the
Malays had tossed them when searching the bunks for valuables. The
table which had stood in the centre lay crushed and shapeless in one
corner, while the pistol with which the murderer had slain Mr. Beverley
was half-hidden beneath it. As for the latter, there was no sign of
his body, and it became evident at once that, as in the case of those
who had lost their lives during the struggle on the deck, it had been
committed to the sea.

