"Perhaps it is better so," murmured Tyler, "for had I seen him here
lying murdered in his bunk the sight could only have shocked and
distressed me. I know that he is dead, for John actually witnessed the
deed. That being the case, I have but one duty to accomplish, and that
is to bring Hanns Schlott to justice. And now for the other parts of the
schooner."

Passing into the bows, he peered closely into every corner, opening
the lockers lest one of the Malays should be concealed on board. Then,
satisfied that he and John were alone on the vessel, and that they were
in command once more, he dowsed the light and clambered to the deck.

"They're hollering fit to hurt themselves," said John with a chuckle,
"and I reckon that Hanns Schlott is jest silly with rage. He's calling
his men together, and I've no doubt that they'll be putting off from
the shore. But it's getting darker, as it often does a couple of hours
before the dawn, and now that the light has gone from the rigging, and
we have slipped away from our berth, he'll have a precious hard job to
find us. But that foresail don't send us along more than a couple of
knots an hour, and when the sun comes up we shall be still in sight of
the prahu. Then them pirates will come swooping down upon us, and we
shall have to make for the shore."

"Then we'll try to hit upon a river," said Tyler. "I had many a chat
with Mr. Beverley on our way out from England, and together we went over
the maps and charts dealing with the island of Borneo. He told me that
there were numerous bays along the coast-line, and that one or more
rivers ran into them as a rule. In fact in some parts the shore is a
swamp in which trees abound, and through which navigation is sometimes
possible. It may turn out that we shall have the fortune to strike an
opening which will allow us to sail some way into the interior, for the
water-ways are wide, and it is fairly certain that a ship can penetrate
many miles from the coast. After that a boat would be necessary, for
there are shallows higher up. But until the day breaks we can make no
plans, and as it is pretty certain that we shall be seen and followed
by Hanns Schlott and the crew of the prahu, it will be well if we make
preparations to resist them. Stay where you are, John, while I get out
some ammunition and load the gun. We'll leave the six-pounder in the
stern loaded with grape, while we'll put a ball into the one right
for'ard."

