Once more the two young fellows parted company, John Marshall to stand
at the helm and listen to the shouts which came from the shore, while
Tyler promptly set about loading the gun which stood in the bows. That
done, he brought from below a supply of muskets and ammunition, and
having prepared them, placed them at intervals along the deck.

"And now for something to eat," he said to himself. "John and I have
been at work for many hours, and the fighting and the excitement of this
business have given me an appetite. It seems to me that we should be
foolish to neglect this opportunity of eating, for once the day comes
our attention will be fully occupied with the pirates. I'll just see
what is to be found in the lockers."

Lighting the lamp once more, he went to that portion of the schooner
where a supply of food and drink was kept, and quickly went swarming up
on deck with some slices of ham, a few biscuits, and a couple of bottles
of beer.

"Jest the thing!" exclaimed John Marshall, allowing a broad grin of
pleasure to overspread his features. "Jest what I wanted; and hang me!
now that the food's before me, I remember that I'm as hungry as can be.
Share and share alike, sir, and make no enemies. Here's a corkscrew in
my knife, and there's a blade as well if we want it."

Seating themselves upon the deck, Tyler and his companion fell upon the
good things with eagerness, washing down the dry biscuit and ham with
a bottle of beer. Then they chatted in low tones, John occasionally
rising to his feet to make sure that the sound of breakers as the sea
washed upon the shore was no nearer. Occasionally a faint shout came
to them across the water, and once they heard the splash of oars; but
very quickly all signs of the enemy disappeared, and they floated
along, for all they knew, alone in that portion of the world. Indeed,
the fact that they had beaten back the pirates and regained possession
of the vessel, and that Hans Schlott and his Malays had for the moment
disappeared from their view, raised their spirits to the highest, so
much so that they joked and laughed there as they crouched upon the
deck. And who could blame them, in spite of the fact that they had so
recently lost their leader? For their escape had been wonderful, and
the relief to their minds was great. Reviewing the events of the night
as he sat there beside John Marshall, Tyler could not suppress the
feeling of elation with which he was filled. Everything had been so
sudden, and almost unexpected. The death of Mr. Beverley, the advent of
the boat-load of pirates, and the desperate struggle which followed had
come with such startling swiftness that his mind was still in a whirl,
while his thoughts were so full of the narrow escape which they had
had, and of plans for the future, that his brain was as yet incapable
of appreciating to the full the loss which he had suffered. Vaguely he
mourned the death of a man who had been a good friend to him, and in his
quiet and determined manner he decided that, once he could see his way
to following Hans Schlott, he would do so with all the energy of which
he was capable. But for the present he and the boatswain were fugitives
themselves, while the rascally Dutchman and his crew of Malays were the
pursuers. How could they contrive to escape from the prahu, and if they
were forced to take refuge on the island, how would they ever be able to
communicate with their friends?

