"We must make as complete preparations for an extensive journey across
the island as we possibly can," said Tyler, breaking the silence which
had been maintained between the two for almost an hour. "You see, Mr.
Beverley's intention was to land upon the coast somewhere hereabouts,
and then to strike for the interior. His object was partly to obtain
particulars as to the productiveness and mineral value of Borneo, and
partly to hunt for rubber, which is becoming very rare, and which always
obtains a high price in European markets. He equipped himself with all
manner of articles, and though we cannot hope to carry much with us, we
can at least take what will be most necessary for our safety."

"Guns, for instance!" exclaimed John Marshall shortly. "I reckon
that our revolvers, a fowling-piece, and a rifle, with the necessary
ammunition, will be far more useful to us than anything else. For food
we can rely upon our weapons, and after that what else do we want?"

"Strong boots and clothes, I should say," replied Tyler swiftly. "Mr.
Beverley told me that rain is to be expected daily in the island, and
that the journey would take us through the thickest forests and deep
swamps. Obviously, then, it will be well to look carefully to our
clothes, and assure ourselves that we are well provided in that respect."

"And what about the schooner?" John ventured to demand. "You won't
desert her and leave her for the use of Hans Schlott?"

"Certainly not. Once it becomes clear that we must abandon our ship we
will sink her or burn her, whichever is easiest. Then we can get ashore
in the dinghy, and once in the swamps I think we shall be able to laugh
at the pirates. But then there will be the natives to be considered, and
in their case we must hope for the best."

"Quite so, sir," agreed the boatswain; "and as to getting rid of
the ship, I vote that we sink her, for we can see to the necessary
arrangements now, and once the day comes shall feel that we have all in
readiness. There's a double-handed augur in my locker, and some chips of
wood which will act as plugs, and which we can knock out of the holes
once the time arrives for sinking the schooner. Lay hold of the tiller,
sir, and leave the job to me."

