Handing the ship into Tyler's care, he went off along the deck and
disappeared below. Half an hour later, when he returned, it was with the
information that he had bored sufficient holes to sink the schooner, and
that a couple of minutes with a hammer would suffice to knock the plugs
out.

"And now for our preparations for landing," said Tyler. "It looks to me
as though we might expect the dawn to break at any moment, and I think
that we ought to be particularly careful to have everything in readiness
for instant flight. Take over the helm again, my lad, while I go below
and get rid of this uniform, and put a pair of strong boots on my feet.
When I come up I shall bring the weapons of which we spoke and a good
supply of ammunition. Then you can follow my example, and make ready for
a journey by land."

"Not forgetting a good hearty meal before we leave the schooner," cried
the boatswain with a laugh. "By dawn we shall have been a couple of
hours or more without a bite, and who can say when we shall be able to
get our next supply of food? So let's go prepared in every way for a
long journey and for rapid flight."

Hastily agreeing to this suggestion, Tyler once more dived into the
cabin of the schooner, and going to his own particular quarters
commenced to don the suit of clothes which he had purchased at
Singapore. A pair of thick boots and a strong felt hat completed his
apparel; while a belt around his waist, in which was a strong sheathed
knife, formed a convenient place in which to secure his revolvers.

"And now for a bag in which to carry ammunition," he said to himself.
"I know that several were included in our equipment, and I think that
if we carried one over each shoulder they would prove of the greatest
service to us, for then, besides taking powder and shot, we could carry
with us some spare stockings. Also, I must not forget that uncivilized
natives are particularly fond of cheap knick-knacks, and as we are
nearly sure to come in contact with some of them, I will certainly carry
a few scarves and looking-glasses with me. Of course, if the pursuit is
very keen, we shall have to throw all these things away and retain our
rifles only, but I hope it will not come to that; in fact, I have made
up my mind that once it becomes clear that the prahu will overtake us if
we remain at sea, I shall run in to the land as rapidly as possible so
as to get a long start. But I must not waste time, for already the sky
is getting lighter."

