A minute later the schooner was headed directly for the opening of a
narrow bay opposite which she happened to be as the day dawned, and
through the waters of which she was soon plunging. Indeed it seemed as
though she too desired to increase the distance between herself and the
native prahu which followed, for she careened to her foresail, and,
helped by the strong tide which was making into the bay, went shooting
in through the entrance, and rounding a sharp promontory which jutted
out into the sea and which had prevented a clear view of the shore
beyond, headed straight for a narrow inlet which lay in front of her.

"A river!" exclaimed Tyler, with a shout of joy as he stood by the
for'ard gun and swung the muzzle round till it presented out to sea.
"A river, and to all appearance sufficiently wide to allow us to sail
directly in, and so get clear of Hanns Schlott and his rascals. Once
we are in fresh water, and out of their sight, we will look for a
convenient landing-place, and then out shall come those plugs. Yes, if
we cannot keep the schooner in our own hands she shall go to the bottom.
Ah! the prahu has come into view again round that point of land, and as
there is an abundance of ammunition below, I shall take a shot at her."

Carefully training the weapon upon the native prahu, he waited until she
had drawn a little closer. Then with a match he fired the powder and
sent a ball hurtling in her direction.

"A good shot!" shouted John Marshall, glancing eagerly over his shoulder
to see what success his young leader had had. "There goes the ball
ricochetting across her bows. An inch or two to the left would have
plumped it right aboard, for the elevation is just right. Try again, Mr.
Richardson, for there is luck in even numbers."

Encouraged by the success of his first attempt, Tyler dived below and
quickly returned with more ammunition; then with the greatest care he
levelled the weapon a second time and fired, with the result that the
ball struck the prahu heavily. Instantly a puff of smoke burst from her
bows, and a shot came whizzing over the schooner, narrowly missing the
mast.

