"Two can play at the same game, that is evident," cried Tyler,
undismayed by their narrow escape. "I will give them another shot or
two, and then I fancy that it will be time for us to get ashore, for a
well-aimed ball from the prahu might damage us severely and spoil our
plans."

For the third time he trained the six-pounder upon the enemy, and,
waiting for a moment till the muzzle of the gun covered the prahu, he
sent a shot screeching in her direction. Crash! Even at that distance he
could almost hear the missile strike upon her deck, and a keen glance
showed him that the utmost confusion had resulted, for Malays could be
seen rushing towards the spot, while a burly figure standing beside the
tiller shook a fist furiously in the air. But whatever the damage done,
it did not retard the course of the prahu. She came on at a rapid rate,
her sails bellying out in the breeze, and her lee-rail awash with the
water.

"It is high time that we made for the shore," exclaimed Tyler. "I see
that we are now entering the river, and within five minutes we ought
to be round the bend which hides the upper reaches. Keep at your post,
John, and head her to the left. Then, the instant we are round the
corner, bring her up into the wind and put the weapons in the dinghy.
While you are doing that I will go below, and as soon as I have knocked
the plugs out of the holes we will say farewell to the schooner. Now,
over with her!"

With a swing the vessel shot round the angle of land which seemed to
bar the opening of the river, and having been allowed to run forward
some two hundred yards, until hidden by a dense mass of forest trees
which intervened between herself and the prahu, she was thrown with her
head into the wind, which set her sail flapping loosely. With a twist
of a rope attached to the bulwarks John Marshall secured the tiller in
position, and at once commenced to carry out Tyler's orders. As for the
latter, he ran below and, seizing the hammer, began to knock out the
plugs which kept the schooner from sinking. At any other time, no doubt,
he would have hesitated before doing such a thing, for the ship was not
his own property, and to sacrifice her seemed almost an act of folly.
But an instant's thought convinced him that it was the only thing that
he could do, and therefore he set to at the work with the full knowledge
that by sinking the ship he prevented her from falling into the hands of
the pirates.

