"That will soon send her to the bottom!" he exclaimed as he dragged the
last plug from its position, and stood there watching some dozen columns
of clear water spouting up into the hold. "And now to get ashore."

With one last glance around he ran to the ladder and quickly rejoined
his companion. Then both hastily quitted the schooner, and, taking their
places in the tiny dinghy, pulled for the shore.




CHAPTER VII

Flight across the Land


"We will take it easy, for we have ample time in which to reach the
trees," said Tyler calmly, as he and John Marshall pulled towards the
land. "Once there, we will select a hiding-place and keep watch upon
the schooner, and upon the prahu as soon as she rounds the bend. If, as
seems more than likely, her boat is dropped and preparations are made to
send a party in pursuit, we will steal off into the forest, using the
utmost care to leave as few traces behind us as is possible. A few more
strokes and we are there. Now out you get, John, and give me a hand to
pull up the dinghy, for we will hide her amongst the bushes in case we
should have need of her on a future occasion."

Waiting until the boat struck against the soft bank of mud at the mouth
of the river, the two sprang ashore, and, lifting the dinghy bodily
from the water, carried her up amongst the bushes. A hasty search soon
discovered a mass of dense undergrowth, into the centre of which she was
thrust.

"That should keep her from all prying eyes," remarked Tyler in tones
of satisfaction, "while a cross on one of the trees near at hand will
serve as a mark by which we shall be able to find her when we come this
way again. Now for the bags and rifles, and afterwards we will turn our
attention to the schooner, and to Hanns Schlott and his friends."

Slinging bags and weapons over their shoulders, Tyler and his companion
left the dinghy in her hiding-place, and having marked an adjacent tree,
returned to the bank of the river once more. There was the schooner
with her head in the wind and her sail flapping loudly. That she was
deeper in the water both could see at once, while the manner in which
she careened to one side told them that very soon she would sink to the
bottom. As for the prahu, there was not a sign of her as yet, though
distant shouts told clearly that she could not be far away.

