"She will round the bend before the schooner goes down," said Tyler in
tones of conviction, "and then Hanns Schlott will meet with another
disappointment. I have no doubt that he has guessed our object in making
for this river, and knows well that it is our intention to escape him
by that means or by the land. But he will hardly have expected such
complete preparations as we have made, and his anger will be great when
he finds how we have hoodwinked him. But let us make up our minds in
what direction we shall go. Shall we strike up along the banks of the
river, or shall we turn to the south and west?"

"The last, sir," was John Marshall's emphatic answer, "for I reckon that
if we made up the stream we should strike across creeks and smaller
rivers running into the main channel, and should be constantly delayed.
Besides this, Hanns Schlott and his fellows will have seen our dinghy,
and will guess that we have rowed up stream in her, hoping in that way
to escape them. That being the case, we must do exactly the opposite,
and must go into the forest. Then, when the search is over or night
falls, we can return to this spot and cross to the other side; for that,
I take it, is our direction."

"Sarawak is the point for which we must aim, and, as you say, it lies
south-west across the river," replied Tyler. "I happen to know that
an Englishman, by name James Brooke, is there at this moment, and if
we could only reach him we should be perfectly safe. But it is a long
journey from here, and before we can hope to come across it we shall
have to cover two hundred miles at least. However, I would far rather
travel double that distance than fall into the hands of the pirates."

"The same here, sir," exclaimed his companion. "Like you, I'd face
anything almost, for there will be little mercy if Hanns Schlott puts
his fingers on us. But look up! Here's the prahu!"

Lying concealed amongst the trees, the two watched with beating hearts
as the native craft swung round the bend and came into the river, and
each noted with feelings of alarm, which they could not easily suppress,
that her deck was covered with men. At her tiller stood Hanns Schlott,
and, catching sight of the schooner, he at once directed the prahu
towards her. Then shouts of exultation came across the water, and the
Malays were seen preparing to throw themselves on board their prize the
instant that they came up with her. It was pretty to watch the manner in
which her lateen sails were dropped when well within reach of her prize,
and at another time the fugitives would have admired the seamanlike way
in which the operation was carried out, and Hanns Schlott's handling of
the craft. But they had other and far more engrossing things to occupy
their attention, and kept their eyes riveted upon the dusky Malays who
swarmed upon her deck. Shooting up into the wind, just as the schooner
had done before her, the prahu came to rest for a few moments. Then some
twenty sweeps were shot out from her wooden sides, and like a gigantic
caterpillar she came crawling towards her prize.

