"Boarders prepare!" shouted the Dutchman in stentorian tones, "and
remember the reward which I have offered. Take them alive or dead and it
belongs to you. Lose them, and you shall know what it is to experience
my anger."

With trained eye he steered the prahu for the schooner so that she
glided alongside with a gentle grating sound, and then shouted again to
his men.

"On board!" he cried, "and as they are not on deck search for them and
drag them from below."

Instantly some thirty Malays sprang from the prahu on to the planks of
the sinking schooner, and, unsuspicious as yet of her condition, at once
rushed for the steep ladder which gave access to the interior. Roused to
the utmost eagerness at the prospect of slaying the two white-faces who
had punished them so severely, and stimulated by the offer of a special
reward, the men struggled to be first, and almost fell into the cabin,
their shouts startling the peaceful scenery around. Hark, something is
wrong, for a head appears at the opening, and a shriek of terror sets
the air ringing. Then, like hunted beings, as if they were face to face
with some horror which they were endeavouring to escape, the Malays came
pouring up in a confused heap, this time struggling even more fiercely
for the leadership.

"What is it?" shouted Hanns Schlott wrathfully, his desire to capture
the fugitives and his anger preventing his seeing the sinking condition
of the schooner. "Do you wish to tell me again that two boys have
frightened you, and that you are flying from them? Back, hounds! and do
not let me see you until you have reported that they are dead, or until
you can say that they are gone from the ship."

"They would be fools to stay," called out one of the men who had
descended, leaping with one big bound to the deck of the prahu, upon
which he alighted with every sign of satisfaction. "The cabin is filled
almost to the top with water, and in less time than I care to mention
she will go to the bottom of the river. Hasten, comrades, or you will be
dragged down to the depths with her."

