With shouts and screams of rage and terror the Malays who still remained
on the schooner came pouring up from below, their limbs dripping with
the water, and all at once ran at their fastest pace to the rail, where,
careless of the space which now intervened between themselves and the
prahu, they sprang outwards in their desire to escape from the sinking
vessel. Some, more fortunate than their fellows, reached their comrades
in safety, and, turning swiftly about, looked back at the schooner with
eyes which bulged from their sockets, so great was their alarm and
consternation at the trap into which they had fallen. A few, however,
who had been unable to reach the deck before owing to the narrowness of
the ladder and to the press of men, found that the jar with which the
prahu had hit against her prize had caused her to sheer off into deeper
water, leaving a gap which no one could hope to jump. For an instant
they hesitated, and then with shrill cries of fright they plunged into
the river, and went clambering into their own ship by means of the
sweeps which hung overboard. As for Hanns Schlott, he was like a madman.
Rushing along the deck, he had at first thrown himself upon the Malay
crew in his anger, and had buffeted those who had returned till they
cowered at his feet. Then, suddenly realizing that he had been fooled
for the second time, and that Tyler and his companion had been too
clever for him, he danced between the masts as if his feelings were too
much for him, and as if violent movement were necessary.

"A second time!" he cried in shrill tones of rage. "They have made me
look foolish again, and I should have guessed their plot, and, leaving
the schooner to her fate, should have landed and searched for them in
the forest or upon the river. But it is not too late even now. I must
not allow my vexation to master my reason, and I will at once see to it
that they are followed. Listen!" he went on, turning fiercely upon the
pirate crew; "the dogs have played a prank with us again, and have fled
from this spot. Did anyone see a sign of the boat which was towed behind
the schooner?"

