For a few seconds there was silence as the Malays watched their comrades
climbing on board. Then one of them, anxious perhaps to appease the
anger of his leader, or drawing upon his imagination in his excitement,
ran towards Hanns Schlott and bellowed some information into his ear.

"You ask for the small boat," he cried. "I saw it disappearing round the
angle farther up, which hides the upper reaches. There you will find the
fugitives rowing for their lives. Hasten! Send after them, and when you
have captured them let them be punished for the trick which they have
played upon us."

Without waiting to consider whether the report were a true one or not,
and roused to a high pitch of anger and vexation by the manner in which
he had been foiled, Hanns Schlott sprang upon the rail of the prahu,
and, holding there to the rigging, stared towards the upper reaches of
the river, shading his eyes with his broad palm, for the hour was an
early one and the sun as yet but low in the heavens. Then he directed a
swift glance to the schooner, as if a sudden suspicion had seized him
that another trick was attempted, and that the fugitives were still in
hiding there. But a moment's contemplation showed him that this could
not be the case, for the sinking vessel lay wallowing in the river,
which was slowly drifting her towards the bay outside. Already part
of her deck was awash, while a trembling of her rigging, a curious
fluttering of the sail, seemed to denote that her end was at hand.
Indeed, as the Dutchman observed her, and endeavoured to make up his
dull and heavy mind to the thought that she was alone, the schooner
suddenly came to a stop in her gentle course towards the bay, then
she heeled to starboard with such a jerk that her topmasts bent like
fishing-rods and threatened to break away. Next second, however, she
righted, and then her stern subsided beneath the water while her bows
cocked high in the air. Down she went inch by inch, while those on board
the prahu fixed their eyes upon her as if they were fascinated. Suddenly
there was a low report, bubbles of air came seething up beside her,
throwing the surface of the river into froth, and instantly the good
ship disappeared from view, only one of her topmasts remaining above the
river. But there was no great depth there, and ere a minute had passed
she had struck upon the bottom, and, sousing forward on to a level keel,
she came to a permanent rest with both topmasts elevated some twenty
feet in the air.

