"Out with the boat!" shouted Hanns Schlott as she foundered. "Let the
crew get overboard at once and row for the shore, there to search for
traces of the fugitives, while we will sail up the river in the prahu
and give chase. If they have escaped in that direction and we do not see
them within half an hour we shall know that they have landed and hidden
in the swamps, for our progress will be far more rapid than theirs. As
for you other men, you are to search the bank of the river closely on
this side, for it is obvious that they have not crossed to the opposite
shore, for otherwise we should have seen them. If you find traces of
their presence fire a gun to recall us, and we will come back to help
you. Above all, should you see them, shoot them at once, for otherwise
they may escape you."

"Evidently a big movement afoot," said Tyler in John's ear as the
two kept watch upon the pirates. "They were nicely taken in over the
schooner, but now they are going to take up the pursuit in earnest. Here
comes a boat-load of the ruffians, while the prahu is already hoisting
her sail to proceed up the river."

"Then what are we going to do?" demanded John Marshall in tones of
anxiety. "If we remain here we shall nearly certainly be discovered, and
I for one do not look forward to becoming a prisoner."

"There will be no making prisoners," was Tyler's short and expressive
answer. "You must realize the fact that those men are the hounds who
will hunt their quarry to the death. As for remaining here, it is out
of the question, for though we have been very careful it was quite
impossible to set foot upon the soft and muddy bank without leaving
impressions behind us. These Malays are, no doubt, excellent trackers,
for they have been accustomed to these forests and swamps all their
lives. They will quickly discover our landing-place, and once that is
done they will follow us. We must leave the spot at once if we wish to
remain alive. Come, let us be going, and be careful to leave as few
traces behind you as you can."

