But now the prahu had dropped her boat into the water and was standing
up the river, while the crew who had been left behind were already
putting out their paddles and preparing to row for the land. To have
waited longer would have been foolhardy in the extreme, and therefore,
without further delay, Tyler and his companion stole off into the
forest. Soon they broke into a trot, Tyler being in advance, and this
they kept up for half an hour, when the jungle thickened and made rapid
progress impossible. Squeezing between gigantic tree trunks, at times
crawling beneath tangled masses of creepers and undergrowth, they sped
on their way, taking the utmost pains all the while to replace branches
which had been pushed aside. With quick eye Tyler sought for the hardest
grass, and led his companion over it. But soon it became evident that
they were approaching a swamp, for the earth beneath their feet became
soft and spongy, and within a hundred yards they were wading knee-deep
through a mangrove swamp which seemed to stretch in every direction but
the one from which they had just come.

"Halt!" cried Tyler, lifting his hand to warn his companion as a break
in the trees denoted the fact that they had come across a creek or some
arm of the river. "Let us listen so as to make sure that we are being
followed. If that is the case we will swim across and continue our
flight on the opposite side."

Throwing themselves down upon the long and twisted root of a durian
which stood above the surface of the water, they sat there panting with
their exertions, and listening eagerly for sounds of the Malays. Nor
were they destined to be kept waiting long, for hardly had they regained
their breath than shouts came echoing through the forest, while the snap
of breaking branches, and the splash of many feet wading through the
water, told that the pursuers were near at hand.

"They have quickly got upon our track," whispered Tyler, "and I fear
that, after all, we shall have to fight for our lives. Now, how are we
to get across the river without damaging our weapons?"

