"Tie the ammunition on to our heads and swim with one hand, holding the
guns above water. It ain't easy, I know, sir, but we've got to do it."

Hastily unslinging the bags in which the ammunition was stored, they
placed them upon their heads, winding the slings round till the whole
was secured. Then they pressed forward into the wide stream, which
seemed to cut its course through the heart of the forest, and, waiting
until the current almost carried them from their feet, commenced to
swim for the opposite shore. As John Marshall had truly stated, it was
no easy task which they had set themselves, for the ammunition, bearing
upon their heads, made it difficult to keep their mouths clear of the
water, while the gun, which was held at arm's-length above the surface,
added to their trouble. But they were not to be easily beaten, and
though already fatigued by their flight through the forest, they swam on
gamely till their feet touched the opposite shore.

"Now for the forest and cover," said Tyler. "Then we will sit down to
rest and watch our enemies. But I suppose that they will make nothing of
the river, and once across will rapidly pick up our trail again."

"Then it's a case of fighting," was the boatswain's dogged reply. "If
they're bound to come up with us what's the good of our tiring ourselves
out by flight? Why not look out for a likely spot at once and get ready
for 'em? With our rifles we ought to be able to kill a few of these
Malay ruffians, and as we know that Hanns Schlott is not with them,
but has gone on with the prahu, it is just possible that they may take
fright and run for their lives."

Both were silent for some minutes as they waded into shallower water
and disappeared within the forest; for the effort of pushing their
way through the stagnant river, the creepers and weeds which abounded
everywhere, demanded so much of their breath that they had none to spare
for talking. However, a few minutes brought them to higher land, and
both were about to dash forward and leave the water when a thought
suddenly occurred to Tyler, and with a quick movement of his hand he
arrested John Marshall's progress.

