"Hold on a bit!" he cried. "Do not move an inch nearer to the dry land
or we may ruin all our chances. Listen to me, for an idea has suddenly
crossed my mind, and it may mean the saving of our lives. Tell me, if we
push on in the direction that we were going, would the Malays pick up
our tracks?"

"Just as quick and as true as a blood-hound, I reckon," was the rapid
answer, in tones which showed that the boatswain had no doubt of the
matter.

"And how long would it be before they came up with us and forced us to
fight?"

"Maybe half an hour, maybe less. It's jest a question of the denseness
of the forest, sir; but it wouldn't be long, I know."

"Then supposing we do not climb on to the higher land. Supposing we wade
through this shallow water, which will effectually hide our tracks, and,
turning to the right, strike along the margin of the creek, and within
this screen of trees. A mile of water should bring us to the river, when
we must consider what is best to be done, though I have the feeling that
we shall do well to return to the spot at which we started."

"Leaving these Malay blokes to push on in a dead straight line!"
interposed the sailor with a chuckle. "I see yer meaning, sir, and I
falls in with the plan right away. The success or failure of it will be
settled within the next half-hour, for if our pursuers cross the creek
and plunge on into the forest we shall know that all is well, for a time
at any rate. What's more, I've a kind of a notion that we shall find it
suit us well to fish out the dinghy and cross to the other shore of the
main stream. Then their difficulties in following and in picking up our
tracks will be so great that the chances are that they will give us up
for lost."

"Not if Hanns Schlott still remains their leader," said Tyler with
emphasis. "Do not forget that he is a vindictive man whose pride has
been severely wounded, for on two occasions we have foiled him and made
him look foolish. Then there is the other matter to consider. Murder
in these seas may be of almost daily occurrence; indeed I believe I
am right in saying that Borneo and the islands around are infested by
pirates who fall upon any and every ship with the one object of plunder.
Crews are ruthlessly slain and their bodies tossed into the sea. And
when there are no ships to be attacked these pirates make for the shore,
and, ascending one of the rivers, fall upon the peaceful tribes within,
with the sole object again of obtaining booty and the heads of their
enemies. But Mr. Beverley was an Englishman, and this Dutchman knows
well that however apathetic the British Government may be with regard to
the loss of native life, they will resent the murder of a countryman.
The Dutchman will never feel secure till he has captured us, and I tell
you now that he will follow us, even if our flight takes us right across
the island."

