"Then the sooner we push on the better," answered John Marshall in tones
which showed that his leader's words had impressed him with a sense of
their danger. "If this here scoundrel will follow us across the island
it'll be well for us to obtain the longest start that is possible. I'm
with yer, sir, and if you think that this plan is a good 'un, why,
forward's the word."

That Tyler and his companion had been wise in coming to a halt ere they
reached the higher land was evident, for had they rushed on through the
swamp they could not have failed to leave impressions of their feet
upon the soil. Then again, some yards beyond the belt of trees which
fringed the edge of the creek the jungle became rapidly thicker, and
passage through it would have been slow and difficult in the extreme,
while it would have been impossible, in spite of every care, to traverse
it without leaving abundant signs of their passage behind. By keeping
to the water, however, their course would carry them through a portion
of the swamp where creepers and bushes were few and far between, and
could be easily avoided. Indeed, there was little doubt that if ordinary
caution were observed they could pass along beside the edge of the
creek without leaving a single sign to aid the Malays. And what was
more natural than that the latter, finding that the fugitives had sped
in a direct course through the forest from the point at which they had
landed, should plunge into the creek, and, gaining the opposite side,
should continue in the same line themselves without suspecting the fact
that another trick was being played upon them.

"That is what I think and hope that they will do," murmured Tyler, as
he waded on through the swamp. "No doubt they will tell by the tracks
which we have left on the opposite shore that we have but little
start of them, and in their eagerness to come up with us and revenge
themselves for the suffering which we have caused them they will rush
on thoughtlessly and in hot-headed haste. While they do so we will keep
within this belt of trees until we get close to the main river, where I
fancy that our best plan will be to float down to the dinghy. Then we
will cross to the opposite shore and take the road for Sarawak."

