Anxiously did he and John Marshall listen for sounds of the enemy
as they sped on through the water, and great was their relief when,
happening to peep from their screen of trees, they caught sight of some
dusky figures swimming across the creek, while others could be heard
calling to their comrades from the forest into the depths of which the
two fugitives had almost plunged.

"On the wrong scent for sure," whispered John Marshall. "I reckon them
chaps is too bent upon laying their hands upon us to make full use of
their senses, or otherwise they would have seen in a moment that we were
fooling them. As it is, once they see through the game they will come
howling back to the edge of the creek, and then they'll be bothered."

"They'll find it difficult to make up their minds in which direction to
follow," said Tyler with decision, "and I have little doubt that they
will separate into two parties, which will go to right and left. If they
do so it will make our task an easier one, for then, should they come
up with us, we shall have fewer enemies to deal with. But do not let us
waste time. Remember, John, that our safety depends upon the length of
start which we obtain. Forward! And do not let us halt until we come
upon the river."

With ammunition-bags still strapped to their heads, in case they should
find it necessary to enter the creek again, they plunged on through the
swamp, leaving a black trail of muddy water behind them. But there was
no fear that the latter would betray them to the Malays, for scarcely
had Tyler and his companion progressed a dozen yards than the thick
mud settled upon the bottom again, leaving a clear surface above. At
length, after traversing half a mile of the swamp, a break in the trees
disclosed a wide stretch of water, while careful inspection showed them
that they had arrived at the point where the creek entered the main
stream, and where they, too, must alter their course.

"The orders, sir?" demanded the boatswain, as if a long swim were
nothing to him. "Do we cross to the opposite side of the creek and make
along to the dinghy by means of the shore? Or shall we jest give the
river a turn? It's one and the same to me, though the first'll be the
easiest."

