"And the most dangerous course to follow," replied Tyler curtly, "for
once we landed on the farther bank we should leave traces of our
presence there, and sooner or later these Malays would pick them up. We
shall be wise if we leave the land alone altogether, and take entirely
to the water till we reach the southern shore of the river. Yes, that
is my proposal; for if we return, by whatever route, to the dinghy, our
pursuers will become acquainted with the fact, and, besides, how are we
to know that they have not already found and destroyed our boat?"

"Jest the thing I was about to mention, sir. And, what's more, how do
we know that men have not been left in the sampan which brought these
pirates from the prahu? Supposin' we was to drop down upon them, they'd
raise such a shoutin' that every one of the dogs would come rushing down
upon us."

For a time the prospect which had just been brought before him startled
Tyler, for the Malays' boat had escaped his memory. But a little
consideration showed him that to descend the river would be madness,
for in all likelihood the craft lay moored off the shore, with a guard
aboard her to protect her in case the fugitives should attempt her
capture. And if men were there they would certainly find some means by
which to attract the attention of their comrades away in the forest.
A shout, the report of a gun, would go echoing along the swamp, and
would soon acquaint the pursuers of the fact that their prize lay in a
different direction; then back they would come, and once more Tyler and
his companion would find themselves so closely pressed that they would
have to consider the advisability of searching for the most suitable
spot and making a stand. Yes, the dinghy was out of the question, and
that being the case it was necessary at once to hit upon some other plan.

"There is no alternative," he said, suddenly turning upon the sailor,
"and our way lies clear before us. We must now turn to the left and wade
through the swamp beside the river until we have ascended sufficiently
far to make it certain that, while venturing to swim across, we should
not drift down as far as the mouth."

