"Then the angle, or jest above it, will be the spot, sir, for there the
river narrows, and while the stream will run strongly below, above it
will be pent up and there will be little flow. That should enable us to
cross easily and without being seen. But steady! Ain't that the prahu?"

He pointed eagerly between the tree trunks to the open stretch of river,
and there, swiftly coming into view, was the native craft which bore
Hanns Schlott and his crew of desperadoes.

"Drawn the upper reaches blank," said Tyler, lowering his voice to a
whisper, as though he were fearful that the ordinary tones would carry
as far as the prahu. "It is clear that they have found no trace of us
above, and are returning to rejoin their comrades. How angry their
leader will be when he finds that they are baffled, and how fortunate it
is for us that they have deserted the water above the bend!"

"Ay, it is that," was the emphatic answer, "for it was bothering me how
we were to keep out o' sight of them chaps when crossing above the bend.
Now they've jest played into our hands, and if we ain't successful,
well, we ought to be."

With a vigorous shake of his head, and a hitch to the bag suspended
about his shoulders, which had swung too far to the front owing to his
active movements, the boatswain intimated to Tyler that he was ready
to proceed, and instantly fell in behind his leader. It was nervous
work wading through that swamp with the dull echo of splashing water
reverberating amongst the trunks, for the sound which they made as
they plodded forward seemed to their anxious ears so loud that those
who were in pursuit of them would certainly hear. Then, too, the dread
lest a clearing should suddenly bring them face to face with the Malays
filled their minds, and caused them to halt every few minutes. But not a
splash, not an answering sound, came back through the dreary forest, and
but for the fact that they had full knowledge that Hanns Schlott and his
crew were in the neighbourhood, they would have imagined that they were
the only two human beings for miles around. But hark! Shouts from the
mouth of the river attract their attention, while the sight of the prahu
standing up-stream again causes them to crouch low in the water.

