"Steering for the creek," whispered Tyler. "She is going there to help
our pursuers, and no doubt will soon clear up the mystery. Let us push
on without a moment's delay."

Stimulated to greater exertions by the thought that the course of
their flight was already discovered, and that even at that moment the
pirates were following in hot haste, the two forgot their weariness,
forgot the fact that their limbs ached with the effort of ploughing
through the swamp and mud, and filled with the determination to make
good their escape, they plunged forward as though they were incapable
of experiencing fatigue. Then, too, convinced that any sounds which
they might make would fail to reach the enemy, they crashed on at their
fastest pace, without care or thought for the traces which they might
leave behind them. Indeed they had already planned a clever ruse which
had gained a long start. But both knew that ere many minutes had passed
the lynx-like eyes of the searchers would discover some sign of the
fugitives, and that done, to trace them would be a matter of no great
difficulty, for their course could only take them through the swamp
which lay at the margin of creek and river. Without pausing, therefore,
to look back, Tyler and John Marshall trudged on and fought their
way through the water till they reached a spot which was some little
distance above the bend in the river which hid the upper reaches from
the view of those who entered at the mouth. And here they came to a halt
at the edge of the swamp and peered across at the opposite side.

"The current is sluggish, as you said," observed Tyler thoughtfully,
"but the distance is greater than I had anticipated. It will be a long
swim."

"But it has to be faced, sir, and we had best set about it at once. When
all's said, it's little after what we have gone through."

"We shall do it, I have no doubt," was Tyler's reply, "but I was
thinking of our weapons and of our kit. You see, this is a far longer
swim and a far bigger crossing than we had to face at the creek, and
even there I am bound to admit that I felt done. The effort of holding
a rifle in the air is by no means small."

