"Then let's get something to float 'em on," said the boatswain suddenly.
"Now that we've carried our packs so far we are not going to desert them
without an effort, particularly the guns, for our lives depend upon 'em,
do yer see, Mr. Richardson. Ain't there some sticks or something of that
sort hereabouts upon which we could give them a lift to the opposite
shore?"

"Sticks? Of course there are, and creepers in abundance," cried Tyler,
leaping at the plan thus put before him. "John, you have a knowing head,
and have been of the greatest help to me. Wait here while I see to the
matter. I will get on to the dry land and out of this swamp, where I
shall be able to obtain the materials which we want."

Not for a moment did Tyler allow the fact to escape him that it was
necessary to blind their pursuers as much as possible and throw dust
in their eyes. True, he and the sailor had dashed forward through the
swamp at their topmost speed and without any great amount of care; but
they had been particularly cautious when first they had turned from
the direct course of their flight, and here, at the point where they
were again about to make a break in the line, the necessity for thought
occurred to him.

"We must not let them think that we have made across the river just
here," he said to himself as he turned from his companion. "They must be
led to imagine that we have pushed directly on, and as the river is wide
at this point they will readily believe that we are still in the swamp.
For that reason I will get to the dry strip of land beside the swamp by
other means than by my feet. Ah, here is a likely tree!"

An overhanging branch caught his eye, and in a twinkling he had sprung
at it and was swarming along. Arrived at the trunk he clambered round
it till upon a second branch, which ran close to another tree, to which
he was easily able to stretch. And thus, by making use of the fact that
the monsters of the forest were placed at close intervals, he contrived
to land upon higher land at a considerable distance from the edge of
the swamp. To draw his knife was the work of a moment only, and very
soon a shower of creepers was being directed in John's direction. For
the purpose of binding the materials together these were all that could
be desired, but for the raft itself something entirely different was
required. Fortunately a bank of thick reeds was at hand, and an armful
soon fell to his blade. A second followed, while the first had already
begun to assume shape and form at the touch of John's deft fingers. A
third completed the supply, and at once Tyler swung himself into the
same tree, and, swarming along to the others, finally came splashing
into the water again.

