"Off with the guns and shoulder the bag," said Tyler sharply, as they
disappeared within the trees. "Now cut the creeper through and push the
raft out into the open. Yes, that will do very well, for now that they
are loose the reeds will become separated and, will soon be washed out
into the bay."

"Leaving Hanns Schlott and his men scratching their heads and jest
puzzling where we've got to and how it is that we have disappeared so
finely," laughed the boatswain, his spirits rising as the distance
between himself and the pirates steadily increased. "And now, sir,
which way? I reckon that we've got the whole of the northern portion of
the island before us, and as that is a larger piece of country than we
require, it seems to me that the best idea will be to set a course at
once and follow it."

"Exactly so, John, but first of all we have to get out of this swamp on
to dry land, and in doing so we must not forget that a trail may be left
which will help the Malays to follow us. Just recollect the fact which
I have mentioned before, that they are splendid trackers and thoroughly
used to the country. That being the case, we must use the utmost
caution, for our lives will undoubtedly depend upon our doing so. Now
let us look out for a likely tree, and then we will go through the same
movements that I practised when obtaining the reeds on the opposite
shore. Ah! this seems to me a suitable spot."

He pointed to the twisted, snake-like root of an enormous durian which,
emerging from the earth, had shot out over the water for all the world
like the branches higher up. About five feet from the surface of the
swamp it was sufficiently flexible to be drawn within an inch or two of
the water, and taking advantage of this fact, Tyler and John Marshall
in turn threw their legs astride it and shuffled along to the shoreward
end. Another branch here came to their aid, and ere many minutes had
passed both were safely on dry land, with the satisfaction of feeling
that however closely their enemies searched the fringe of trees which
bordered the river they would find no trace of the fugitives. Then would
commence a tedious hunt a few yards within the forest, and while that
was in progress the white men would be speeding away. Yes, haste was of
the utmost importance, and realizing this to the full, Tyler and his
companion took to their heels, and, setting their faces towards the
south-west, ran on in that direction with the understanding that as soon
as they had placed some five miles between themselves and the pirates
they would halt and settle the direction in which they were to march.

