At length, breathless and exhausted after their exertions, for it was no
light task to push through the forest at that rate, the two arrived at a
part where the jungle was broken by a clearing, and, throwing themselves
down upon the ground, waited there to rest. Scarcely had they recovered
their breath and turned to one another to discuss the situation than
a loud shout close at hand startled them, and in an instant they had
sprung to their feet and faced about to meet the enemy.




CHAPTER VIII

Meeting the Dyaks


"Mias! Mias!"

Suddenly the words, shouted at the top of a deep bass voice, broke
the silence of the forest, and bursting from the trees near at hand
came reverberating across the clearing, bringing Tyler and his comrade
panting to their feet.

"Who is that? Can the Malays have already come up with us and be about
to attack us?" demanded the former breathlessly. "Surely they cannot
have discovered our whereabouts so soon, and those shouts must be
produced by natives of these parts."

"It ain't the pirates, that I'll swear," responded John Marshall in
startled tones. "Mias! That's how it sounded, and it seems to me, from
what I know of the lingo of folks hereabout, that it was different to
the Malay tongue. There, listen to that, sir; they're getting nearer."

"And will burst into this clearing before us," exclaimed Tyler in alarm.
"Back into the trees and let us hide! Quick! for by the sound they are
already almost upon us."

Unslinging their rifles as they ran, the two hastened across the
clearing and dived with frantic eagerness in amongst the trees. Then
once more they threw themselves full length upon the ground, and,
peering from amongst the bushes and trailers which grew in luxuriance
about them, stared out into the open. And all the while each wondered
who it was who could have given vent to those shouts, and what was
the meaning of them. To runaways attempting to escape as they were,
the shouts came with startling suddenness, and even now their hearts
beat rapidly against their ribs, so great was the consternation that
they had caused. However, a moment's reflection had been sufficient to
assure Tyler that the Malays, with Hans Schlott at their head, could not
have arrived upon the scene so quickly, and instantly he set to work
imagining who it could be who had given vent to the words. Nor was he
long kept waiting, for as he thrust his head still farther from behind
the bushes in his eagerness to catch sight of any who might come, the
shout again echoed amongst the trees, to be followed instantly by a
sight which filled his mind with amazement.

