"Mias! Mias!" The call came to his ears in the shrillest of tones,
and was followed instantly by the crash of breaking branches. Then of
a sudden something short and stout, and in the shape of a man, swung
from a tree at the edge of the clearing, and went running across the
open space in a half-crouching attitude, with the knuckles of its hands
dragging upon the ground.

"An ape," exclaimed John Marshall in a whisper, "and a mighty big one
too!"

"An orang-outang," corrected Tyler, staring at the animal. "I believe
that they are very common in the island, and often grow to very large
proportions. That one, for instance, is almost as big as a man. But what
is happening? If he is being chased, like ourselves, why does he not
rush to the other side of the clearing and get away in that direction?"

"Because he can't. Because there's natives over there, natives all round
him. He's brought to bay, and he's got to fight for his life, poor
beggar!"

"And will give some trouble before he is defeated. Look! he has seized
a branch and means to use it as a cudgel, just as if he were a human
being. But listen. There is the shout again."

Scarcely had the words left Tyler's lips than the curious call again
awoke the echoes of the forest, and had barely died down when some
dozen dusky figures suddenly emerged into the clearing from opposite
directions and advanced upon the threatening figure, which now occupied
a central point. Crash! The animal raised his cudgel at the sight of his
enemies, and brought it to the ground furiously and with such force that
it was a wonder that it was not broken into a hundred pieces. Then, as
if the sight of the natives aroused his anger beyond everything, the ape
came running to meet those who were nearest to him, his body now held
fully erect. With glaring eyes and wide-open mouth, which exposed a row
of terrible fangs, he ran with silent feet towards his enemies, snarling
in his rage. Then, singling out one in particular, he leapt at him with
unexpected suddenness, and, throwing his cudgel to the ground, gripped
the unfortunate fellow in his arms.

