"Look! He will kill him! The brute has caught the poor fellow's
arm between his teeth, and I heard the bone crack!" cried Tyler,
unconsciously raising his voice in his excitement at the scene. "Ah! the
others are afraid. They are hanging back, and will desert their comrade.
We must help, for we cannot lie here and see a human being killed before
our eyes by such a hideous brute. Your rifle, John! Quick! out into the
open!"

Almost before the boatswain had grasped his meaning, Tyler was on his
feet and running between the trees at his fastest pace, and ere John
Marshall could rise to follow him his leader was within a few yards
of the ape. As for the natives, one more courageous than his comrades
had thrust at the savage animal with a spear, and had left the weapon
sticking in his back. But he might just as well have used a thorn from
a neighbouring tree for all the effect it produced, for the mias did
not seem to notice it, and, turning as the man dodged round him, went
running towards him, still holding the unfortunate native between his
teeth. And now the air was full of shouts of consternation as the
natives dodged about their comrade. A few attempted to follow the
example set by one of their brothers, but the gleaming fangs, the fierce
snarl to which the animal gave vent as each approached, caused their
courage to vanish, and instead of throwing themselves upon the ape
in a body, with the firm determination to rescue their unhappy friend,
they darted farther away, and stood there brandishing their weapons and
calling in frightened voices to one another. Imagine their amazement
when a white man suddenly burst from the trees and rushed upon the scene!

[Illustration: "HE SPRANG AT TYLER"]

"Out of the way!" shouted Tyler, as if the natives could understand him.
"Now, be ready to help me should I fail in shooting the brute. John,
come up on the opposite side and let him have a bullet from your gun
also."

Stepping carefully towards the ape, Tyler advanced with outstretched
weapon, prepared to raise it to his shoulder the instant that an
opportunity presented of firing without injuring the man; but the ape
seemed to guess at his intention, for, seeing another of his enemies
approaching, he suddenly opened his mouth, and, relinquishing his grip
of the arm, tossed the native to one side. Then, with another of those
formidable and unexpected leaps he sprang at Tyler, alighting within
a few feet of him. A terrible sight he was too, with enormous fangs
exposed and his lip and nose wrinkled and contracted as he snarled. His
small, ferrety eyes seemed to flash fire at the intruder, while each
muscle of his enormous body stood out like a cord as he prepared for the
attack. Indeed, so formidable was his appearance that our hero almost
faltered and gave back. But the imminence of his peril, the fact that if
he but turned his back for a moment the beast would be upon him, kept
him with his face to the foe. And then his spirit, the fine courage
which he undoubtedly possessed, and which had already stood him in such
good stead, came to his help, and at once, levelling his weapon, he
fired at the ape.

