"Jump!" shouted John Marshall, seeing that the brute had failed to drop.
"Out of the way, sir, or he will get you in his grip!"

Quickly though the warning was given, it came too late to save Tyler
from the fury of this strange enemy, for, stung to madness by the pain
of his wound, the mias gave vent to a snarl of rage and leapt full upon
our hero's shoulders. The brawny arms encircled the figure of the white
man, and once more the capacious jaws opened in readiness to bite. A
moment and the gleaming teeth would have closed upon the back of Tyler's
neck, when John Marshall sprang to his aid, and, holding his fire for
fear of killing his leader, thrust the muzzle of his weapon between the
jaws. Then all three fell upon the ground and struggled there together,
while the natives who had so unexpectedly arrived in the clearing looked
on in utter amazement, incapable of giving help to those who had come so
gallantly to the rescue.

"Hold it there! Keep your gun between his teeth for a little longer,"
shouted Tyler, with difficulty keeping his presence of mind. "My right
hand is almost free, and very soon I shall be able to draw my revolver."

Putting out all his strength, he slowly drew the arm from the powerful
grip which held it to his side, and then rapidly felt for a weapon. His
fingers lit upon the butt of a revolver, and in a trice the muzzle was
thrust against the hairy chest of his opponent. Bang! As the report rang
out the lanky arms suddenly fell away, the jaws opened wide as if in
another effort to tear the limbs of his white-faced enemy, and then with
a sigh the terrible mias collapsed upon the ground, where he lay with
arms and legs spread out in all directions. As for Tyler, he sprang to
his feet with a cry of triumph, and, forgetful of the natives around,
who as yet might prove to be enemies, he turned with extended hand to
thank his companion.

"You saved my life, old friend," he said, in tones which showed his
gratitude. "Had it not been for the fact that your weapon was thrust
between his teeth he would have killed me; he would have gripped me in
that awful mouth, and would have choked the life out of my body. I thank
you from the bottom of my heart!"

