"You're welcome, sir. I'd do the same every day of my life if you was to
call for my help, for I tell yer, in this world one good turn deserves
another. Where would I ha' been if it hadn't been for you, I'd like to
know. Jest washing about in the sea outside, I reckon, and food for the
fishes. It was you, begging yer pardon, sir, who beat off them pirates,
and if it hadn't been for yer quickness we should ha' been taken by
Hans Schlott and his villains. So, yer see, we're even, and there ain't
nothing more to be said about the matter. But what about these chaps
here?"

He turned and pointed to the natives, who stood about them still
in open-mouthed amazement, looking at the white men in speechless
astonishment.

"We must make friends with them," was Tyler's instant answer. "We have
suddenly come to their help, and they will surely be grateful. But first
of all let us look at the poor fellow who was seized by the ape. I am
afraid that he has been very seriously injured."

"He's dead, sir," responded John, stepping across to the body. "That
bite would have been enough for most anyone, but I see the mias give him
a squeeze just before he threw him to the ground, and I reckon it jest
broke every rib in his body. He's dead, sure enough, and there's no use
worrying longer about him. But about these chaps. There's another coming
this way, and what's more, he's a Chinaman."

"Then he may understand our language," burst in Tyler, for he had learnt
from Mr. Beverley that the island of Borneo contained many of the race,
who frequently sailed there after residence at Singapore. "Call him
here, John, and let us attempt to talk with him."

Leaving the dead native lying upon the ground, and the enormous ape
huddled in the centre of the clearing beside him, they walked towards
the figure of a Chinaman who had emerged from the forest a few minutes
before. As for the latter, he advanced towards them with a cry of
delight and without the slightest sign of fear, and arriving within a
yard of them, halted suddenly, and salaamed to them as if he realized at
once that they were his masters.

