"Li Sung him velly glad you comee," he said, with another of his curious
bobs, which set his pigtail swaying. "Li Sung him comee along with
natives and chase de mias. He reachee de edge of de forest in time to
watchee de battle. Li Sung givee kow-tow. Him see velly great brave men
before him."

"And you speak English," exclaimed Tyler with delight, "and will be able
to show these friends of yours that we are not here to injure them. Who
are they? And what do they do?"

"And where do they live?" added the boatswain suddenly. "Look here,
Johnnie, my lad, we're in want of friends, and, what's more, our object
is to get as far away from here as possible, for, like the mias, we are
chased. A Dutchman and his cruel pirates are after us, and their prahu
lies in the river beyond the trees."

"Den dey are our enemies as well," was the Chinaman's quick answer. "We
livee a few miles on through de forest, and de tribe wid whom I workee
am peaceful Dyaks. Dey sow de rice and work in de paddy-fields. But
sometimes dese pirates comee deir way and den dey fight, for if not dey
am killed and deir heads taken. Yes, de pirates am velly nasty men, and
we hatee dem."

"Then the Dyak people with whom you live will befriend us," said Tyler.
"Talk to them and tell them who we are, and why it is that we are here.
Say that we will do them no harm, but in return for the help which we
have given them just now we will ask them to shelter us for a time until
we can proceed on our journey to Sarawak."

"You go dere?" cried Li Sung eagerly, pricking up his ears at the
mention of Sarawak. "Den me comee too, for Li Sung havee wifee in
Sarawak. But me talkee to de natives."

He went off at once to do Tyler's bidding, while the latter conversed in
low tones with his companion.

"We are in luck," said Tyler, sitting upon the ground, for, now that
the excitement was over, he was feeling fatigued and somewhat shaken
after his struggle with the ape. "It seems that Li Sung, this Chinaman,
also wishes to make for Sarawak, and we will most gladly take him with
us, for it is clear that he has some acquaintance with the country, and
in addition can speak the language of these Dyaks, a fact which will be
of the utmost value to us. It is evident that he is pointing out to the
natives what we have done for them, and I could see when he was talking
to us that his bobs and kow-towing impressed them with an idea of our
importance. Nothing could be better for us, for the more they respect
us the safer we shall be. But here he comes again, and I see that he is
bringing the natives with him."

