"Li Sung him say allee dat you tellee him," began the Chinaman, "and de
natives ask you to stop wid dem. Dat was deir chief," and the Chinaman
pointed to the unfortunate Dyak who had fallen a victim to the ferocity
of the ape, "and dey ask dat you takee his place. Dey also say dat dis
Dutchman has fought dem before, and coming upon dem suddenly has killed
many of deir comrades. Den he has sailed away, taking de wives and
children with him as slaves. He will follow you, dat is for sure, and
dese people will have to fight. Dey ask, den, dat you place yourself at
deir head and lead dem, for in attacking de mias allee alone you have
shown dat you am brave and strong."

Once more the pigtail swung from side to side while the Chinaman
kow-towed to Tyler. Then he stood erect again, and with outstretched
hands repeated his message.

"Helpee dem," he pleaded, "and dey will drive dis Dutchman back. Refuse,
and all whom you see here will die, while deir homes will be broken up.
Dose dey care for will become slaves, and will be taken miles and miles
away among strange people, while dose who are left with deir lives will
find deir crops ruined and deir fruit-trees, upon which dey feed far
more dan upon de rice, cut to the ground."

"Their chief!" exclaimed Tyler in astonishment. "You may tell them, Li
Sung, that I will take the place for a time, but they must understand
that at the first opportunity I shall leave for Sarawak. But we cannot
discuss the matter here, and therefore I suggest that we march at once
for their village. Lead the way and we will follow."

With a sharp bob and a shake of his pigtail the Chinaman showed that
he understood the order and fully agreed with it Then he turned about,
and, shouting some words to the Dyaks, led the way into the forest As
for the latter, they ran to the centre of the clearing, and while a few
lifted the body of their comrade and commenced to carry him away, the
remainder hastily searched for a suitable bough and made preparations
to remove the mias. A couple of lengths of creeper at once filled the
place of ropes with which to bind the wrists and ankles of the animal
together. Then a long stout bough was thrust between them, and three men
attached themselves to either end. At a given signal they lifted their
burden, and, resting the pole upon their shoulders, went staggering off
towards the forest. As for Tyler and John Marshall, they fell in behind
and trudged along, their minds so full of the turn which events had
taken, and of the strange and unexpected manner in which they had fallen
amongst friends, that conversation was impossible.

