Very soon the procession came to a path which had evidently been trodden
by many feet, and turning along this they pushed their way through a
belt of forest which would have been impracticable had it not been for
the fact that the hand of man had been at work clearing the undergrowth.
On every hand enormous giants reared their leafy heads into the air,
for the most part ascending some fifty feet or more before giving out
a branch, while, crowded in between them, trailing this way and that
in fantastic festoons, and embracing their more powerful brothers as
if to protect them or to obtain support from their strength, were long
creepers, with leaves of the most delicate and vivid green.

"And look at the flowers," said Tyler, who now for the first time was
able to take note of his surroundings, and observe the beauties of the
island of Borneo. "Whenever we happen to come upon a spot where the
trees stand back and permit the rays of the sun to penetrate, orchids
and other tropical blooms can be seen in profusion, dangling often from
the tree tops."

"Yes, and there are palms, sir, and won't we jest enjoy them," was the
sailor's reply as he pointed to several of that variety. "Nothing like
cocoa-nuts to quench the thirst on a boiling hot day."

"And evidently the natives believe in them, John, for you can see that
they have erected bamboo ladders against some of the trees, and have
settled their abode in the midst of a plantation. Now how will they
receive us, I wonder?"

By now they had come to a break in the forest path, and the trees
suddenly ceased to spring up on either side. A glance at once showed
that the woodman's axe had been busy here, and had kept the jungle
at bay. Large areas of flat and open ground were to be seen, and all
under cultivation; while farther on, a plantation of palms and abundant
fruit-trees overhung an enormous house, around which swarmed numerous
natives.

"The village!" exclaimed Tyler. "Seeing that long hut reminds me
that Mr. Beverley told me that these Dyaks seldom have separate
establishments for their families, but prefer to live under the same
roof. In fact, some of their residences harbour five hundred people, and
are some hundreds of feet in length. But here we are, and now I suppose
that there will be a talk."

