Reassured by the friendly glances of the natives, and by the words of
the Chinaman, who had now rejoined them, the two young fellows marched
up to the village hut with heads in the air and a smile upon their lips.
But all the while their senses were fully alert, for they had heard
before now of treachery, and it was well to be prepared. However, there
was no need for alarm, for scarcely had they reached the steep ladder
which led to the living floor than a number of women appeared bearing
food for them.

"If de Englishmen will be seated deir wants will be looked to," said
Li Sung, again kow-towing, a sign of respect which the Dyaks at once
imitated. "Li Sung can assure dem dat dere is noding to fear, for dese
men am velly friendly. Dey have seen de brave act which was meant to
save de life of a comrade, and they are for ever in the debt of deir
visitors. But dey bid you hasten, for if dere am evil men who hunt for
you, it will not do to sitee long at food. After you have eaten we will
talkee, and my master shall say what course it will be wise to follow."

"Then we shall be ready very soon, Li Sung, for we have no wish to fall
into the clutches of the Dutchman. In five minutes we shall be ready,
and you can bring the chief men along. Now bring the food."

With a wave of his hand the Chinaman bade the Dyak women come forward
with their trays, and soon the two fugitives were indulging in an
excellent meal.

"It beats everything," exclaimed John Marshall with enthusiasm as he
settled himself to do justice to the repast. "An hour ago we were flying
who knows where, and wondering whether we should escape with our lives.
And now we suddenly find ourselves in proper trim, with victuals and
drink to spare!"

"But with a great deal before us," interrupted Tyler thoughtfully,
staring hard at the ground as though that would help him to decide what
their next step was to be. "We have an enemy to think of, John, and
sitting here will not save us from him. I am wondering what chance these
Dyaks would have against Hanns Schlott, for, as you see, they are but
rudely armed, and have not a single firearm amongst them. It seems to me
that it will be better for them, perhaps better for us also, if we agree
to part company at once, for otherwise we shall be the cause of their
getting into trouble."

