"And if we leave they will still have to meet the Dutchman," said the
boatswain swiftly. "I say that this Hans Schlott will come this way once
his trackers have got on our line, and, remembering that there are Dyaks
in the neighbourhood, will make a raid upon them. The rascal makes his
living by piracy, and when that fails he takes slaves and gets money by
them. So he'll attack 'em, and it'll not make so much as a farthing's
difference if we remain or not."

"De words am true," broke in the voice of Li Sung at this moment. "My
massa, Li havee already said dat dis captain of de prahu am known to
us. A year has passed since he sailed into de river, but we havee not
forgotten. See dere. De trees are but sprouting from de ground, and if
we had not had others to draw from elsewhere we should have starved."

He pointed to a portion of the plantation where numerous stumps
protruded from amongst the vegetation.

"Yes, dere are de remains of de fruit-trees," continued Li Sung, "and
deir loss was almost as bitter as de theft of de wives and children.
Massa, de men here am in terror. Were dey to knowee all dat you havee
told me dey would fly velly quick, for dis Dutchman am a monster in deir
eyes. But here am de chiefs, and we will talkee wid dem."

He beckoned to a number of natives who had squatted near at hand, and
at the signal they ascended the ladder and sat down before Tyler with
an air of gravity which showed that if they were not fully aware of the
close proximity of the pirates they were for all that fearful of some
impending danger.

"Tell the white man that we are his children," said their spokesman,
addressing his words to Li Sung, who at once interpreted them. "From
the moment when he dashed into the clearing and faced the mias in the
hope of rescuing our young chief we were his friends for life. And now
that we are without a leader we ask him to fill the place, at least for
a time. Say also that we have heard enough to show us that, the pirates
are near, and that if he and his friend leave us we shall certainly
fall victims. Would that we could change our home, for the soil is now
past the work we demand of it, and more of the jungle must be cleared.
Then, again, our lives are never safe while we remain near the river,
while the mias, tribes of which inhabit the forests near at hand, rob
our trees of their fruit, and make their cultivation hopeless. We are
dispirited, and now a new misfortune is upon us."

