"Change their home! The soil is worked out, and misfortunes constantly
coming!" murmured Tyler as if to himself, while his eyes roamed round
the circle of Dyaks, "Why not change their abode? Why not come to
Sarawak with us and there have peace and safety under the Englishman?"

Unconsciously he said the words aloud, so that John Marshall overheard
them, and instantly the latter's features brightened with a smile, while
he turned with unusual eagerness to his young leader.

"I know somethin' about these here Dyaks and the China boys," he said,
"for away in Singapore one met plenty of the last who had been to
Borneo, and who told the tale that the tribes often wander in search
of new fields for cultivation. Yer see, a couple of seasons work the
nourishment out of the soil, so that it jest refuses to give good value
for the labour expended on it. Then the Dyaks pack up their goods and
jest march right away till they come to a likely neighbourhood. Having
settled upon their new home they set to work to cut down the jungle, and
then to lay out their crops. As for a house, it is nothing to build, and
takes little more than a week, for you can see for yourself that the
materials are close at hand, and everything jest done to last a short
time only. Then, too, they've got to think of enemies, and I've heard it
said that everyone is against these poor helpless people. They ain't got
no firearms as a general rule, and I reckon they're at anyone's mercy.
Now if we was to lead them, and, after beating back this Hanns Schlott
and his fellows, to march with the whole lot to Sarawak, we should be
doing them a good turn, while their company would make our journey all
the more secure."

"And at the end we should bring them under the protection of James
Brooke of Sarawak," added Tyler. "Mr. Beverley, who was an admirer of
that pioneer, told me that the latter's chief aim and object in coming
to Borneo, and in settling at Sarawak, was to look after the interests
of the unfortunate Dyaks, who are fleeced, and murdered, and taken into
slavery by powerful gangs of pirates composed of Malays and sea-coast
Dyaks as well. Their lot, indeed, is a very hard one, and by persuading
these people here to join us in our journey we should be doing them no
harm. Indeed we should be conferring a benefit upon them. I admit that
the journey is a long one, but then a brighter prospect will be before
them at the end. But let us put the suggestion to them, when they can
consider it for themselves. Listen," he went on, addressing himself
to the Chinaman, "my friend and I will do what we can to lead you and
protect you, and it has occurred to us that if these people here are
considering a move, and above all, if by remaining here they are to run
the danger of constant attack at the hands of the pirates, it would be
better for them to go far away and leave this neighbourhood altogether.
We are bound for Sarawak, where James Brooke has made his home, and is
fighting to bring peace to the natives. Ask them whether they would care
to make the journey with us, and find their new home in the place that I
have spoken of."

