Leaning back against the wall of the native hut, Tyler watched the faces
of the Dyak tribesmen as the proposition was put before them, and noted
the eagerness with which they listened to Li Sung's words. That they
were impressed by the proposal became quickly evident, for at once they
began to discuss the matter with every sign of interest, and, conscious
that upon their decision the fate of their comrades would depend, they
promptly called to those who stood about them to join in their council.

"But we must not forget the pirates," said their leader, arresting the
conversation for a moment. "I have already placed a few men in the
forest to keep watch, but now I will send others to the bank of the
river there to spy upon their movements. Then if this Dutchman comes
in this direction we shall have warning of the fact, and shall be able
to stand or retire as seems most advisable. And now to settle this
important question."

For almost an hour did the tribesmen devote themselves to Tyler's
proposition, and having made up their minds as to how they would act,
turned to the Chinaman to interpret their meaning.

"Say that we are well satisfied with the wisdom of this journey," began
their spokesman, "and are prepared to make the venture. Even to this
remote part the fame of this Englishman has reached, and every report
tells how he cares for our poor brothers, and slaves so that they shall
lead peaceful lives. He knows that the Dyaks of the land are a contented
people, and that they are willing for the most part to till the soil
and live the simple life of peasants. We wish for nothing more, and
as journeying to the country about Sarawak promises a change in our
existence, we will take the risk and accompany the young Englishman who
has become our chief."

"Then we will at once make arrangements to set out," exclaimed Tyler,
rising briskly to his feet, "for I am perfectly certain that we have no
time for delay. Tell them, Li Sung, that they are to collect the women
and children together immediately, and pack up any valuables that they
may have. Nothing beyond that which is absolutely necessary must be
taken, for we shall have arms to carry with us, and, besides, a supply
of food will be of the greatest importance, for then we shall have
provisions for the first day's march, a time when our attentions are
likely to be engaged with the enemy. And that brings me to the question
of the pirates. Shall we make a stand here and endeavour to beat them
back, or shall we march on at once, leaving them to follow if they care?"

