"Neither the one nor the other, that's how I reckon it," answered
John Marshall promptly. "Yer see, sir, these here natives ain't got a
single gun amongst them, and ain't a match for the Dutchman and his
crew. Mind yer, I don't think much of our enemies after the blows we
give them, but they've got guns in plenty, and what's more, they've
already come this way and scared these poor fellows. We've a forest
between us and the river, and I votes that we fill it up with our men,
giving them orders to retire gradually, but not before they have picked
off as many of the pirates as possible. They've plenty of sumpitans
amongst them, as they call their blow-pipes, and for silent forest work
no weapon could be better. If the Dutchman pushes on, our men will
retire and finally disappear altogether."

[Illustration: THE CONFERENCE WITH THE TRIBESMEN]

"An excellent plan," exclaimed Tyler, who had listened attentively all
the while, "for while a few of our men engage the enemy in the forest,
the women and children with the bulk of the tribe can be pushing on
towards Sarawak. Every half-hour gained in such a way will be of the
utmost importance, while the process of checking the pirates can be
repeated on a second occasion. Now let us learn the strength of our
forces. Tell me," he went on, addressing the Chinaman, "how many men are
there in this tribe, and what is the number of women and children to
whose safety we shall have to look."

"Three hundred allee told," replied Li Sung, elevating three fingers the
better to show his meaning, "and half can helpee you wid deir weapons,
while de others am too old or too young to joinee in de fighting."

"Then we will keep fifty in reserve, while you, John, will at once push
on with the greater force. Send a few men in advance, and throw out
a rear-guard, with whom we will endeavour to keep in touch. I shall
command the party in the forest, and shall join you when all danger
of pursuit has ended. And now let us see to preparations, for we have
already delayed too long."

