Springing to their feet, they hurriedly gave their orders to Li Sung,
who interpreted them to the Dyaks. Then, leaving the boatswain to
marshal the larger proportion of the tribe and hurry them on their way,
Tyler shouldered his rifle, and, waving an adieu to his companion, went
off into the forest accompanied by Li Sung and fifty of the Dyaks.

"We will call a halt here and listen to what our scouts have to tell
us," he said when they had penetrated some little distance. "Then if
Hanns Schlott and his men have not yet put in an appearance we will
march on and lie in wait beside the river. That will give us a good five
miles of jungle through which to retire and harass the foe. Send two of
the men forward, Li Sung, so that they may recall a couple of the scouts
and take their places while the latter return to give us their tidings."

Seating himself upon the root of a tree, for the day had been a
fatiguing one and he felt in need of rest, Tyler chatted in low tones
with the Chinaman while he waited with what patience he could command
for the coming of the men who had been sent forward to spy upon the
pirates. Nor was he put severely to the test, for the men whom Li Sung
had despatched to recall them had taken to their heels at once, and had
gone running through the jungle at a pace which would have taxed the
powers of anyone less agile. Trained to the forest and to woodcraft from
their very earliest days, they seemed to find their way through the
thickest undergrowth as if they had been there hundreds of times before.
Indeed, nothing seemed to stop them, for if a dense bush or the root of
a tree were too low to be easily passed under they leapt the obstacle
without a moment's hesitation, and went on their way without faltering
and without a halt. Half an hour later two figures came bounding from
amongst the trees and drew up at Tyler's feet.

"The news?" he demanded eagerly. "Where is this Dutchman and his crew of
desperadoes?"

"De men say dat de pirates allee lightee so far," said Li Sung, rapidly
gathering their information and interpreting it to his young leader.
"Dey say dat dey have watched beside de river, where, too, they came
across de spot where you and de other massa dropped from de tree. De
Dutchman am troubled. Him not knowee where him turn, but as he not
findee you on de other shore him now sail de prahu dis way. When de man
leave de swamp de pirates just get into de boat and row dis way."

