"Then they will soon hit upon our trail," exclaimed Tyler, "and we
must be there in readiness to meet them. Let the men spread out till
a few yards separate each one. We will advance upon the river in that
order, and you may tell them that they will keep the same positions when
returning. For the last movement they will take their orders direct from
me, and as soon as a word is passed down the line each will turn about
and will run back fifty yards, but no more. Later on we will repeat the
same movements, and gradually will retire through the forest. Let the
Dyaks know that I and my friend fought this Dutchman and his full crew,
and made good our escape, and inform them also that upon their bravery
will depend the safety of their wives and children. And now, forward is
the word."

Springing to his feet, Tyler followed the Chinaman through the jungle,
noting with pleasure as he did so that the Dyaks under his command had
instantly obeyed his orders, and, seeming to grasp his meaning at once,
had separated. Then, too, he could not fail to see that they were in
better spirits than formerly, and that his presence amongst them, and
the example of coolness which he set them, had already roused their
courage.

"Anoder time and dey would have run for deir lives," explained Li Sung,
twisting his pigtail into a knot upon the back of his head, so as to
keep it clear of the thorns and brambles which abounded on every hand.
"Now dey tink dat dey safe from de Dutchman, and dey smile and feel
allee merry. Dey will stand by massa velly well, for dey have seen him
fight de mias."

An hour's rapid walk through the forest at length brought Tyler and his
men to the belt of swamp which fringed the river, and here they joined
hands with the scouts who had already been sent to the spot, to learn at
once that the prahu had dropped her anchor off the shore and had sent
some fifty men into a couple of boats. The latter had been rowed towards
the forest, and a few moments before Tyler's arrival had disappeared
within the trees.

