"Then we can expect them at any time," said Tyler when the report was
brought to him, "but for the present we will retire fifty yards from the
swamp, and will take up a position between our friends and the point
where I and my companion landed. When they come to that the pirates will
turn inland, and we shall be able to give them a lesson. Repeat to the
Dyaks that they are on no account to show themselves. The presence of
an enemy must be followed by the discharge of an arrow through their
blow-pipes and by withdrawal into another position close at hand. They
are not to retire more than a few feet until they get the word from me,
or unless some special circumstance makes it necessary. Now come with me
and help to place our men."

Followed by Li Sung he went off through the jungle, and ere long had the
satisfaction of feeling that all his preparations were completed. Then
he lay down under a dense mass of bramble and creeper, and waited for
the enemy to appear.

"Hush, massa! de Dutchman him coming dis way," suddenly whispered Li
Sung, pointing to the right, "and him velly much troubled. Him hunt and
hunt and not find de Englishman, and him velly angry."

"But he and his men will not be long now in picking up our tracks,"
answered Tyler beneath his breath. "Look! there are the Malays
following, and very soon they will have some news to give their leader.
That will be the moment for us to surprise them."

Peering from beneath the leaves which screened him, Tyler saw the burly
Hanns Schlott trudging along upon the higher land which lay beside the
swamp. His eyes wandered restlessly in every direction, whilst his face
looked drawn and haggard, as though fear of the punishment in store for
him for his crime were weighing upon his mind. Eagerly did he turn aside
to inspect each broken twig which caught his eye, lest at last this
should be a sign of the fugitives; and when at length one of the Malay
crew who walked beside him called his attention to some footprints in
the ground, the Dutchman gave vent to a shout of triumph which startled
the forest and at once called all his men about him. Then, placing two
possessed of the keenest sight a few paces in advance, he plunged into
the jungle, determined to follow wherever the footmarks led.

