


CHAPTER IX

On Foot through the Jungle


Well was it for Tyler and the Dyaks, whose chief he had so suddenly
become, that he had made arrangements for meeting the enemy with such
thoroughness; for otherwise Hanns Schlott and the fifty men or more
who accompanied him would have pushed on through the forest at a pace
which would rapidly have eclipsed that of the retreating tribe and
would have speedily overwhelmed them. But there were those lurking in
the jungle prepared to arrest the progress of the pirates, and thanks
to the resolute air which Tyler had displayed, and to the knowledge
which the Dyaks now possessed, that he, with John Marshall alone to
help him, had faced the crew of the prahu and safely escaped, they were
full of confidence in their young chief's powers to lead them and bring
them safely out of the engagement. Crouching there amongst the dense
undergrowth, each man lifted the long wooden blow-pipe which these Dyak
tribes use, and having already placed within it a sharp-pointed arrow,
at the base of which was a pith-bulb to hold the air, they pointed them
at the Malays and waited for the word to fire.

Hish! One of the pirates who had been sent in advance to follow the
tracks of the fugitives gave a gasping cry, and fell upon his face, his
hands convulsively grasping one of the tiny arrows.

"What has happened?" demanded Hans Schlott, giving a start of surprise.
"Get up at once, and do not alarm us by your antics. Come, drag the
fellow to his feet," he went on, seeing that the Malay lay still with
his head buried in the undergrowth. "He imagines himself hurt, and will
lie there till we force him to rise."

"He is dead!" exclaimed one of his comrades, rushing to his side and
turning him upon his back. "See here, someone has fired at him with a
blow-pipe. It must be the Dyaks who have been watching."

"Then they shall suffer!" burst in the Dutchman with an oath. "Once
before we raided them, and a fine fat sum we gained by our slaves, I
recollect. They shall be punished again, and in the meanwhile the death
of one of our number shall not deter us. Push on, and keep your eyes
open wide for these snakes of natives. A shot into the jungle will soon
scare them Ho there! Level your weapons, all of you, and direct them so
as to sweep close to the ground. Then pull the triggers as I give the
word."

