Waiting till all his men had run to him, and had become ready to carry
out his orders, Hanns Schlott shouted "Fire!" a volley of musketry being
at once poured into the bushes. Then with an answering shout his men
sprang forward upon the trail. As for Tyler and his little force, for
the moment the Dyaks were dismayed at the swishing bullets and at the
patter of twigs and leaves which resulted. But they had suffered no
harm, and that thanks to the fact that each one had kept his eyes fixed
upon the enemy, and at the first sign of the movement had lain flat upon
the ground. But in spite of their lucky escape they would have given
back at once, and have plunged in mad flight into the forest, had it not
been for Tyler. With a shout to encourage them, he fired at the nearest
Malay and brought him staggering upon the ground. Then Li Sung's voice
joined in and helped to maintain the courage of the Dyaks.

"Fear them not!" he cried in the Dyak language. "We are as yet unseen,
and can punish them. Think of the women and children taken into
captivity by these men! Keep your places and shoot straight!"

"I heard the voice of that Englishman," shouted Hanns Schlott. "Then
he has picked up some of the Dyaks and hopes to beat us back with their
aid. But he will soon learn that they are poor fighters, and will desert
him. Forward, and do not let these men keep you!"

Striding to the front of his men, he led the way into the jungle,
feeling confident that, at the most, the white men for whom he searched
could not have obtained the help of more than a few of the natives. But
he quickly changed his mind, for ere he had traversed a dozen paces one
of the silent missiles again swished with its low peculiar note through
the air, and, striking the Dutchman in the shoulder, brought him to a
sudden halt.

"A second arrow, but not poisoned!" he cried, giving vent to an
exclamation of annoyance and pain, "Not poisoned, as I said, my men, for
that I happen to know. It is nothing--a mere pin-prick--and shall not
stop us. On! shoot them down, and capture this runaway!"

