Plucking the arrow from his clothing and from the flesh beneath, Hans
Schlott sprang boldly into the underwood, a drawn revolver in each hand.
But his men held back doubtfully, their fears aroused by the sound of
Tyler's voice.

"They have guns! The white men will turn them upon us as they did on
the schooner, and we shall be killed!" called out one of their number,
retreating towards the swamp. "See! a comrade has already paid with his
life, and others of us will fall. They are unseen also, while we are an
open target."

"You at least are in sight," was the Dutchman's answer, as he swung
round upon his cowardly follower. "Move another step backwards and
I will fire! Come, do not be frightened by his tale," he went on as
the man came to a sudden halt and stood trembling before the weapon
which his leader held levelled at his breast. "You are not all so
chicken-hearted as this girl! Will you be driven back, and for the third
time at least, by a couple of boys without hair on their white faces,
and by a few half-starved natives whose knees knock at the mention of
your names? Forward! Charge through the forest and hunt these rats out!"

Emboldened by his words, the pirates quickly recovered their spirit,
and, seeing that Hanns Schlott was prepared to lead them in person, at
once fell in behind him, and, rifle in hand, plunged into the jungle.
Separating, so that a considerable interval lay between each man, they
threw themselves down upon their knees so as to render themselves less
visible, and in this manner began to stalk their enemies.

"We will retire at once," said Tyler, perceiving their action, and
realizing that, now that they were fully alarmed and had knowledge of
the presence of enemies, the pirates would creep to close quarters and
ruin his plans. "By remaining here we run the chance of having the
Malays upon us and of engaging in a hand-to-hand struggle. That is just
what I do not want, for then the Dyaks will be beaten, and at the sight
of their old enemies will turn and fly. We will retire some two hundred
yards, and perhaps when Hanns Schlott and his men see that the forest
directly in front of them is clear they will imagine that we have gone
altogether. In that case we shall be able to surprise them again. Give
the word, Li Sung."

