"I will give de signal which all know," was the answer. "Li Sung him
make de sound of de parrot. Plenty same bird in de forest, and men of
Dyak tribe know at once that dey are to creep back. Dere!"

Rising swiftly to his feet the Chinaman sounded the note of a parrot,
and again falling upon his knees began to crawl off through the
undergrowth. Tyler also turned about, and went off swiftly in the wake
of Li Sung, taking good care to keep his head low. When he had traversed
some two hundred yards, and all sounds of the pirates had ceased for
some little time, he called gently to his guide and motioned to him to
come to a halt.

"We are far enough now, I think," he said calmly. "Give the signal
again, and then lead me round to inspect the positions taken up by
the natives. Give each one directions also to be ready to retire again
at any moment, only they are not to forget that on the next occasion
they are to crawl only some fifty yards, unless, as has happened this
time, they see me retire still farther. Now hurry, and, above all, keep
silence."

Having brought the Dyaks to a halt by the signal, Li Sung went off
on all-fours at a rapid rate, taxing Tyler's strength to the full to
keep up with him. A gentle call as they went soon brought them to the
lurking-place which each individual had selected, and at once the orders
were handed to him, the Chinaman acting as interpreter.

"Now back," said Tyler, when all was to his satisfaction. "Let me know
the instant that the pirates come near us."

"No need to tellee dat," said Li Sung. "Massa him keepee little ear
widee open and him hear. De Malay man come swift velly soon. Him tink no
little man wait for de pirates, but allee gone. 'Velly fine,' him say to
himself, but wait. Li Sung know muchee better dan dat. S-s-s-s-h! I tink
I hear dem."

The gentle rustle of leaves brushed aside, and the snap of breaking
twigs under foot, broke upon the ear and brought Tyler full length to
the earth once more, where, burying his head in the centre of a dense
bush, he peered amongst the trees.

