"Hish! S-s-s-sh!" came again from the pigtailed Chinaman. "Li Sung him
can hear men over dere, and dey not creeping. Dey walking wid head velly
high, and dem say dat de white man whom dey hate havee gone away. Wait a
little bitee. De Dyaks and deir friend soon tellee anoder story. Hish!"

Lying beside Tyler, he whispered the words into his ear, and then pulled
him by the sleeve as louder sounds than usual issued from the jungle.
Then as both peered from their leafy screen, first one, and then some
thirty of the Malays came into view, while behind them their comrades
could be heard calling. As for the Dutchman, he was not long in putting
in an appearance, for, as the last of the pirates hurried up, he too
walked forward, all unconscious of the fact that fifty pair of watching
eyes were fixed upon him.

"A wild-goose chase!" he was saying to his men, while a sneer wreathed
his features. "The white hero has at last given way, and has fled
with these savages. But we will soon catch them up, for they are but
poorly fed, and will be hampered with their women and children. Keep
together, and let one only take the lead, so that the tracks shall not
be smothered. Now."

In a bunch all came forward at his bidding, while one of their number
whom Hanns Schlott called by name sprang to their front and began to
lead the way. Now was the time for Tyler and his men, and waiting only
till the enemy were within easy shot of the blow-pipes, the former
shouted so that all could hear, and at the same time fired his rifle
into the middle of the Malays. A second discharge followed, and ere
Hanns Schlott and his men could recover from their astonishment, or
could realize the fact that six of their number had fallen, the silent
watchers had stolen off on hands and knees and had taken up another
position some fifty yards in rear.

Twice again did the Dyaks under Tyler's lead cause loss to the enemy,
for though the latter now came through the jungle feeling their way
by inches, and probing every bush with their bullets, the watchers
constantly moved their position, and always directed their arrows from a
different quarter. At length Hanns Schlott realized that to go farther
would be to risk being surrounded and cut off, and with an oath at once
ordered a retreat.

