"How do you know?" demanded Tyler, turning upon him in surprise.

"Li Sung him know because him once pirate too," was the simple reply.
"Him sail from Singapore for Borneo with plenty dollar in him pocket,
and get captured by de pirates. Dis Dutchman deir leader, wid anoder of
de same country."

"Christian van Sonerell!" exclaimed Tyler, listening eagerly to the news
which the Chinaman was giving him. "He is dead, for he fell when my
friend and I captured the schooner."

"Den he one velly bad man out of de way, massa. Him cruel man and beat
and kick poor Li Sung till him shout for mercy. But me tellee you all.
Dis pirate makee me slave, and set me to pull de oar of one of de
prahus. Dere Li sit for many days, and wid de prahu him go to de Sarebus
tribes."

"The Sarebus tribe! Why, they are notorious pirates," said Tyler. "My
friend who owned the schooner which the pirates captured, and which we
stole from them again, told me that the Malays and Dyaks of the Sarebus
were bloodthirsty in the extreme, and were for ever raiding the coast.
And you went there?"

"Many times, massa. Li Sung him chained to de oar wid many anoder slave,
and him pull and pull until de hands blister and get sore, while de lash
of de pirates cutee him shoulders. But massa not knowee allee about
dese Sarebus men. Dey havee plenty fine prahus, and often dey put to
sea wid fifty or more ships and many hundred men. Den dey cruise along
about Borneo, sometimes going as far even as de China Sea, and ebery
day dey pounce upon de merchant-ships. Sometimes him a native filled
with birds'-nests or gum. And den it am a ship wid white-faces on board.
Dey all suffer de same. De crew am killed wid the kriss, and de ship am
sunk after all her cargo am taken. Dey fear no man, dese pirates, and de
Dutchman am now deir leader. Him follow for sure, massa, and him send
news to de Sarebus tribe to lie in de way."

The Chinaman became suddenly silent, as if the prospect which he had
so suddenly opened out were too much for him. As for Tyler, the news
amazed him, and filled his mind with anxious forebodings. He, too,
had heard of the pirates about Borneo, and had had many a chat on the
subject with Mr. Beverley, from whom he had learned their history. The
Archipelago was, in fact, overrun with these sea-robbers and murderers,
and it had been at first somewhat difficult to realize who were the
peaceful natives and who the piratical ones. But at length Tyler had
come to know that Borneo was peopled with many races, and that the
Malays inhabited many of the coast towns. For years they had beaten down
their Dyak neighbours, and though as a general rule the latter would
have preferred to live quiet lives and till the soil, they had been
compelled to join the Malays simply because of the fact that existence
was impossible in any other way. Still, numbers who lived farther
inland would have nothing to do with the pirates, and had they had the
opportunities would have become contented tribes. But here again the
baneful influence of the new-comers was evidenced, for the Malays ground
down these poor people and fleeced them shamefully. And so, finding
that in spite of diligence and hard work they could not better their
condition, the inland tribes took to making war upon one another.

