Head-hunting, which had always been the vogue, became a mania with many
of the tribes, and bloodshed was of daily occurrence. To marry or to
make any change in his existence a man had to obtain a head or heads,
and it mattered little how he came by the trophies. Often he waylaid his
enemy in the forest and slew him without a word of warning, returning in
triumph as though he had done the bravest deed. The death of a king or
chief, a birth, in fact any unusual occasion, had to be celebrated by
the taking of heads, and often, too, by the slaying of slaves.

Again, slavery was common, and the Malays were for ever raiding these
inland tribes by means of the rivers, for the purpose of making
captives, whom they sold. And thus when Tyler landed on the coast of
Borneo it was to find the country in a state of chaos and misery, except
perhaps in the neighbourhood of Sarawak, where James Brooke had settled.
Elsewhere all was given over to violence and piracy, the Dyaks of the
land fighting one another and taking heads, while the Malays and the
Dyaks of the coast, known as the sea Dyaks, ravaged the river towns and
cruised in the open sea. Within a hundred miles of Sarawak there were
many of their strongholds, and perhaps the most important of all was
that at Sarebus, where dwelt the ruffians under Hanns Schlott's command.

For long did Tyler lie there thinking the matter out, until the Chinaman
touched him upon the arm and urged him to retire.

"De pirates gone, but velly soon dey come again in plenty big numbers,"
he said, with a doleful shake of his head. "Better put as much of de
land between us as we can, den de Dutchman have furder to walk, and
perhaps we havee time to comee to Sarawak."

"Then we will retire at once and catch the tribe up, Li Sung. Call the
men together, and send four of the best scouts after the pirates to see
that they really embark. Once they have watched them depart they can
rejoin us, and I have no doubt that they will have little difficulty in
doing so, for they are used to the forest."

