"And can run for many hours, massa. Leavee it to dem, and Li Sung him
tellee you dat dey reach de tribe before we are dere."

Once again the shriek of a parrot awoke the forest, bringing all the
men together at once. Then, having taken the precaution to send some
of their number back to the river, there to watch the pirates till
they had gone, and to throw out a few scouts in advance and on either
hand, the main body pushed on at a rapid pace in the wake of their
friends. And now, as they trudged through the jungle, Tyler had ample
opportunity of observing his strange companions. He saw that they were
fine, athletic-looking men, with muscular figures and powerful limbs.
All were almost naked, and the only clothing of which they boasted was
a loin-cloth and a handkerchief of gaudy colouring which encircled the
head. At the waist was slung a pouch containing betel-nut, which all
delighted to chew, while in addition a bundle of arrows was carried.
A short sword, with a handle of carved wood, completed the weapons
of offence, while a big shield of bark, which was slung over the
shoulders, afforded some protection in hand-to-hand contests.

That evening, as the sun was about to set, Tyler and his men came up
with the main portion of the tribe, and found them encamped on the edge
of a small stream which provided abundant water.

"And now to discuss the situation and prepare for to-morrow," said
Tyler, when he had taken something to eat and had thrown himself down
beside John Marshall. "We have a big journey before us, and many dangers
to face. Already I have told you of Hanns Schlott's threat, and of the
Sarebus pirates who will waylay us. What course shall we take? Tell me
what you think, for you have had little else to do for the last few
hours."

"And I can't say that I've been able to fix the matter," was the
sailor's candid answer. "Yer see, sir, I wasn't aware of these here
Sarebus fellers. They jest makes all the difference, and when you tell
me that they're goin' to waylay us, why, it makes me think that we'll
have to retire on the river. We ain't fit to fight a tribe of them
Malays, and if we go on we'll get chopped to pieces. Now there's the
schooner. She'd float with a little help."

