"And we should sail away, leaving these unfortunate Dyaks to meet Hanns
Schlott alone," said Tyler quietly. "You did not think of that, did you,
John?"

"You're right there, sir, I didn't, or I'd never have proposed the move.
But I don't see no other way out of the trouble."

"Then we will push on and trust to good fortune and to careful leading.
I have watched the men I had with me in the forest, and I could see
that they were full of excitement at first, and that the very sound
of an approaching pirate made them tremble and think of flight. After
the first brush, however, they began to have confidence in themselves,
and now they are bursting with their own importance. Their spirit will
extend to the others, and if we only foster it, and let them see that
they are as good as the Malays, they will fight hard for their lives,
and for the sake of their women and children.

"But they are useless as they are, for they rush about in a mob, and
there is no commanding them. For that reason we will divide them up
into three companies of fifty, one of which I will look after, while
you and Li Sung lead the others. The remainder will guard the women
and children. We will march in that order, and when we get in the
neighbourhood of the Sarebus river we will send scouts ahead. What do
you think of that plan?"

"It's a good 'un, and of that there ain't a doubt," was John's emphatic
answer; "and next to the idea of a boat I think it's the best. Yer see,
if it had been possible to pack the whole lot on to the schooner we
could have sailed right into Sarawak, and could have easily beaten off
a prahu or two. But it's no use bothering when we all know that the
schooner isn't big enough for half the number."

"While Hanns Schlott may very well have thought of the same thing,"
burst in Tyler, "and for fear that we should refloat her and sail away,
may blow her to pieces, or take her himself. No, a journey by land is
the only thing for us, though should the opportunity arrive of seizing
boats belonging to the pirates I should not hesitate. But now to see to
the camp and to the guards. To-morrow we will arrange the companies and
instruct the men."

