Rising to their feet Tyler and his companion went the round of the
camp, taking Li Sung with them to interpret. Then, having seen that
guards were thrown out in the forest, and all precautions taken against
surprise, they wrapped themselves in some rough cloth which the natives
had provided and fell into a deep sleep. Early on the following morning
they were afoot, and calling all the men of the tribe together at once
informed them of their intention to divide them into companies.

"It is the way in which the white men of our race fight," said Tyler,
addressing himself to Li Sung, who obediently interpreted to the
Dyaks. "By splitting our numbers in the way I propose, we provide three
companies capable of acting independently of one another, or together,
while we set them free of the care of the women and children. Of course
if we were hard pressed we should place the latter in the centre, so as
to give them more safety, but we shall hope that it will never come to
that. Again, on the march one company can go in advance, and to it will
be given the task of seeing that the jungle is clear of the enemy. The
second will march in rear and guard that portion, while the third can
roam at will and can replenish our stock of food. I understand that all
of the tribe are trained hunters, and that being the case there should
be no need for us to starve."

"The words of our leader are full of wisdom," replied the young chief
who had formerly addressed Tyler, "and we are willing to do his bidding.
More than that, we are pleased at the manner in which he led the men who
held the pirates back, and we say that while he is with us we are ready
to fight, whatever the numbers opposed to us and whatever the dangers.
He has proved himself a great and wise commander, and we know also that
he is brave. Can we ask for a better leader, and can we refuse what his
experience dictates?"

A guttural exclamation of approval burst from his fellows as Li Sung
turned to interpret the words, while a few who had formed part of the
rear-guard on the previous day sprang to their feet and waved their
weapons above their heads in their excitement.

