"Say that we will even fight all these Sarebus pirates," called out one
of them, a fine stalwart man of light complexion. "They will be thinking
of pursuit only, and will never dream, my friends, that we should be
bold enough to throw ourselves upon them. Why, then, should we not take
them by surprise, and ere they could turn upon us in their full numbers,
having recovered from their astonishment, disappear like ghosts, just as
we did but yesterday when in the forest?"

Again a shout of approval burst from the assembled warriors, while the
young chief rose to his feet and, mastering his excitement with an
effort, addressed Tyler for the second time.

"We are even ready to do that," he said slowly. "As our comrade says,
let us change for once from being those who fly. For years it has been
our fate to be hunted. We have toiled and striven for comfort and peace,
and all that we have asked is to be allowed to remain in our homes,
there to live quietly. But time and again have these pirates come upon
us and rooted us out. They have taken wives and children from the tribe,
and they have sent us homeless and scattered into the jungle. Brothers,
the time has come to change all this. But yesterday I should have been
afraid to mention such a thing; indeed, the thought would never have
crossed my brain. But the fighting in the forest, the ease with which we
drove this hated Dutchman and his men back, and the fact that we have
as a leader a man who is brave, who faced the mias without fear, and
who has even escaped from the pirates, having beaten them with the help
of one companion alone, induces me to urge you to think of punishment,
of retaliation. Let us fall upon these pirates swiftly, and when least
expected, and then, as our brother says, and as our leader suggested
yesterday, let us do all that is possible to them and retire into the
depths of the forest ere they can attack us in force. Surely that is a
brighter prospect than to be ever flying? Surely if we are men this is a
plan which should meet with our approval!"

