Drawing himself to his full height, the young Dyak looked round at
the tribesmen, searching each face closely. Had he had any doubt of
their wishes in the matter, or of their determination to turn the
tables on their enemies, it was at once dispelled, for with the usual
impulsiveness of these savage people they all with one accord leapt to
their feet, and, brandishing their shields and weapons in the air, set
up a shout of defiance.

"There," said the chief, turning with a grave smile to Tyler, "you see
what can be expected. Two days ago these warriors were only warriors
in name, for all were dispirited. No one has ever led them, and when
we have met the pirates it has always been in scattered groups. Now
you have shown us that by keeping together, by coming upon the enemy
unawares, and by retiring before they can assemble to harm us, we can
meet them with success. We will follow you blindly, and since it is
clear that this Dutchman will do all that he can to take us, and that
death will stare us all in the face, while our women and children will
be captured and made slaves, why, we will fight hard and do all that men
can to defeat our opponents."

"Then we will set about the division of the tribe, and will draw up
rules for the guidance of each company," said Tyler, as soon as the
words had been conveyed to him by the Chinaman. "You can tell them, Li
Sung, that absolute obedience must be given, and that the arrangement
must be carried out at once."

At his orders all sat down again, and then the young chief rapidly
called the men apart, telling each individual off to one of the three
companies. All who were left were sent to take charge of the women and
children, while the others listened while Li Sung interpreted their
white leader's directions.

"Tell them that those who march in advance will send back news and
orders immediately they come upon the enemy," he said. "They are then to
close in to the women and children, while those who are abroad hunting
will at once return so as to be at hand in case they are required. On no
account is a warrior to betray his presence to an enemy. He is to send
back a comrade to the main body and to me, so that others may be sent to
the scene. See that they understand thoroughly, for it would never do to
have confusion."

