An hour later the tribe of Dyaks marched from their bivouac, Tyler,
with one of the companies, leading the way. Marching through dense
jungle again, it was some considerable time before more open ground was
reached, for the island of Borneo is a thickly wooded one. At length,
however, they emerged upon a stony plain, and trudged on for miles over
rocks and boulders till more trees came into view, and in their midst a
river of great depth, which barred their onward progress.

"What shall we do to cross?" asked Tyler of Li Sung, who had accompanied
him, handing over the command of his own company to the native chief.
"The river is too deep for the women and children, so that it will not
help us if we men swim across."

"You will see, massa," was the Chinaman's laconic reply. "De Dyaks used
to de forest, and de river, and dey show you how to cross velly soon.
See, dey am searching for a tree, and will cut it down."

Standing on one side, our hero watched with interest as the natives
searched along the bank for a suitable tree. Soon they came upon a
long, stout bamboo, at the foot of which two lusty youths commenced to
hack with their swords, while others leant against the trunk so as to
direct it across the stream. It was wonderful to see how quickly they
cut it down, and with what dexterity they caused it to fall in the right
direction. Scarcely was it fallen, and its boughs safely lodged upon the
farther bank, than one of the Dyaks sprang upon the trunk, and without
the help of a guide-rail or of a stick, ran across it. Others followed
swiftly and commenced to hack the branches away, and when it came to
Tyler's turn to essay the crossing, only a long slim trunk stretched
from bank to bank. Very different was it to him with his boots on his
feet to balance upon the frail bridge, but his followers were looking
on, and, therefore, though the trunk bent and swayed in an alarming
manner, and though the water was some twenty feet beneath, he went on
without a halt and without so much as a falter.

