"Massa has done velly fine," said Li Sung, following across the stream
and kow-towing. "The crossing am one which asks for all de courage, and
de white man was not likee dese natives, for he has boots of leather
upon his feet. But we shall be able to go on plenty quick, and de tribe
will follow without a halt. If we meet another river we shall do de
same, and I can tellee de massa dat de Borneans are never stopped by
such a thing. Bamboos help dem everywhere, and if dey require to do
anyding they turn to dat tree. Deir houses am framed with de bamboo, dey
make stockades wid de trunks, and if dey wish to climb de tallest tree
for fruit or for honey, de same wood comes to aid dem. But shall we go
on, massa? De country am open and de day am velly fine."

Halting occasionally to rest the men and to allow those in rear to catch
them up, Tyler and his company kept on a direct course towards the
distant town of Sarawak. Not for one moment would their young leader
allow the line to be departed from, or a detour to be made so as to
avoid the river upon which was situated the stronghold of the Sarebus
pirates.

"They would fall in with us just the same," he said to John, when
discussing the question, "and by going farther to the left, into the
heart of the island, we shall be giving ourselves a longer tramp and to
no purpose. And besides, by missing the river we shall lose all chance
of capturing boats and taking to the sea."

"Yer ain't thinking of taking their prahus?" exclaimed John in
amazement. "It's a big job, and might cost us our lives."

"It might," had been Tyler's answer, "but I am inclined to think that
it would be the best course for us to pursue, for if not, we shall have
to retreat to Sarawak by land with all these pirates hanging on to our
rear. In that way they would manage to kill many of our men, while we
should be constantly harassed. By doing as I suggest we shall come upon
these Malays and their comrades when they least expect us, and with a
little fortune on our side shall defeat them. Then, if we have laid our
plans well, we may be able to embark the whole tribe and set sail. I
would far rather face them at sea than know that they were hanging on
our heels as we trudged through the jungle, and that at any moment,
and particularly during the night, they might charge down upon us and
stampede the men. A bold course will best help us to reach safety."

