Day after day did the tribe push on in the direction of Sarawak.
Occasionally, when there happened to be a wide break in the trees, they
would catch a sight of the blue ocean, but very soon it would be hidden
by the forest or by the hills. On their left, and many miles inland of
them, a long blue range of hills stretched unbrokenly, cutting them off
from the centre of Borneo, while here and there an isolated mountain
reared its peak into the sky. Overhead a hot sun poured down upon them,
blistering Tyler's face and tanning his skin; but it troubled him far
less than it would have done had they been marching across plains, for
the leaves above sheltered them greatly, while when passing across a
clearing of wide extent a palm leaf thrust beneath his wide-brimmed hat
made him secure against sunstroke. At length the retreating tribe came
within some sixty miles of the winding river of Sarebus, where Hanns
Schlott and his pirates might be expected, and at once Tyler set to work
to prepare for the struggle.

"At present we have not instructed our men in the attack," he said,
calling John Marshall and the Chinaman to him. "Coming through the
forest we have kept one formation, and the Dyaks have learnt how to
march in safety very well. I think that there has never been a day when
an enemy could have taken us unawares, while ample watch has been kept
at night. But now we ought to have some practice in working together for
the attack, and I propose that we devote an hour or more each evening
to the purpose. Let it be understood that at about two hours before
sunset the company in advance is to turn round and act as an enemy. The
remainder will march with one company in rear as before, and with half
the third company between the women and children and the men who have
gone in advance, and who are for the time being to take the part of
pirates. To make sure that no accidents can happen, we will let them
wear a strip of cloth on their arms, or, better still, let them attack
bareheaded. Then we shall know at once that they are really friends.

