"As to their method of approaching us, I leave that to them, but
they must do their best to surround us and cut us off, while we will
place our men so as to drive them away. No harm can possibly result,
while the practice cannot fail to do good, and steady the men for our
approaching fight with the Sarebus pirates. Li Sung, you will call the
chiefs together and tell them what I say, and also that we will commence
practising to-morrow evening."

On the following day it was evident that the spirits of the warriors of
the Dyak tribe of which Tyler was the leader were considerably raised
at the prospect before them, while their whole demeanour was changed.
Instead of being down at heart and fearful of the future, they seemed to
have imbibed some of their white chief's enthusiasm, and they set about
the work of making themselves efficient with a zeal which showed how
eager they were. Marching quietly through the day, with an occasional
rest so as not to overtire the women and children, they came to a halt
some two hours before the sun would set, and went silently to the posts
which had been assigned to them. Very soon scouts came running in to say
that men who were bareheaded were creeping through the jungle, and ere
long the two bodies were engaged, blunted arrows being used so as to
make the practice more real. For three evenings in succession was the
same movement carried out, and when at length the scouts who had been
sent far in advance returned with the news that the Sarebus river was
in sight, and that they had seen one of the many piratical strongholds,
Tyler had his men well in hand. Thanks to his forethought the natives
now kept together, and instead of making frantic and useless rushes,
waited for the signal from their captain. A shrill call, too, would
bring all the companies together to one spot, while those who had the
important post of guarding the women and children thoroughly understood
how to protect them against the enemy, and how, when the day seemed to
be going against their comrades, to steal away with their charges into
the jungle and there seek safety in flight.

