And so it turned out that when the news arrived that the foe was at
hand, the Dyaks heard it with cries of pleasure instead of with those of
fear and dismay, for they were more than anxious to try conclusions with
an enemy from whom they had suffered heavily.




CHAPTER X

The Pirate Stronghold


"At last we are close to these Malays and the sea Dyaks," said Tyler
with a sigh of relief, when the news of the proximity of the Sarebus
river was brought to him, "and as it is very necessary that the leader
of our party should be fully acquainted with their haunts, I shall
leave the tribe at once and push on with a few followers. To you, John,
I leave the post of commander during my absence, with instructions to
remain here in hiding till I return or send for you. You will place
scouts all round, and keep a most careful watch, for were you to be seen
by any stray native the news would buzz to the ears of Hanns Schlott
and his men, and we should have to turn tail and run for our lives.
Remember that sudden attack, and still more rapid disappearance, are the
only movements for us, and that to stand up to all the pirates would be
fatal, for they have firearms in plenty, while we have none."

"Then the orders are to remain here for the present," replied the young
boatswain, touching his cap. "Right, sir! and I'll obey so long as all
goes well. But supposing you fall into this Dutchman's clutches? What'll
I do then?"

"Whatever seems most sensible, but rescue will be out of the question.
Don't imagine that Hanns Schlott would keep me a prisoner for long. He
would have me killed at once, and it is that fact which will make me
fight all the harder in case I am attacked. But it will not come to
that, I hope, for I and the men who are to accompany me will steal upon
them like ghosts."

"But massa may happen to be seen," interrupted Li Sung, who had listened
intently. "Supposing Malay or sea Dyak come suddenly up while huntin' in
de forest, and see de white man? Den him runee for him life, and shout
dat de enemy am near. And velly soon de white man havee him head right
off--a-a-ah!"

