"And I reckon as it wouldn't be a bad thing for me to do the same,
sir," broke in John Marshall. "Yer see, there ain't any knowing when we
may drop on some of these covies, and the sight of me would send 'em
howling, jest the same as it would if they dropped their eyes on you.
Let's both get made into darkies, and then we'll be ready for anything."

"And Li Sung him see dat allee managed for you," said the Chinaman with
a smile. "Him velly fine man, de China boy, and him done same ting often
and often. Plenty dye wid de Dyaks, and if massa and his friend havee
little patience Li Sung bring de stuff. De dress am noding. Ebery man
here help wid dat."

"And what about our feet?" demanded Tyler suddenly, realizing that
it would be impossible to trudge through the forest without becoming
rapidly lame. Indeed, he knew that it would require more than a week of
careful walking to harden the skin sufficiently to allow them to cross
smooth ground, but when there were stones and thorns progress would be
impossible, or, at any rate, exceedingly painful.

"You see," he went on, "we have worn boots up to this, and I am sure
that it would never do for us to go barefooted. We should be laid up
after the very first day's tramp."

"Then why not get these darkies to make sandals or some such
foot-covering for us, sir?" asked the boatswain. "They're clever enough
at that sort of thing, and I ain't a doubt but what they'll be able to
turn out something suitable from bamboo or some of the leaves in the
forest. What do yer say, Johnnie?"

"Dat you am velly right. De Dyaks makee plenty fine sandal velly soon.
Leave it to Li Sung, and him comee back wid de tings."

"Then be as quick as you can," said Tyler, "for I wish to push on at
once. We have made a fairly rapid march up to this, and it is probable
that the pirates are not expecting us as yet. Indeed I hope that they
will have taken it for granted that we have made a wide detour, in which
case they will have sent men towards the mountains, the line which we
should have taken had it been our object and intention to avoid this
river on which they have their stronghold. In any case, as I have
said, they would hardly expect us here at present, if at all, and by
seeing that we do not delay, we shall have all the more opportunity of
effecting a surprise. How long will you be, Li Sung?"

