"One, p'r'aps two little hour, massa. But Li go see at once, and come
back velly soon."

With this reply the Chinaman went away towards the encamped tribe of
Dyaks, with his pigtail dangling over his arm. Evidently the cunning
fellow was busily thinking over his master's wants, for his chin was
on his breast and his face lined with wrinkles. But, like all of his
country, his wits were sharp, and as he went he had already made up
his mind how to carry out Tyler's wishes. In fact, only half the time
mentioned by him had elapsed when he was seen to be returning, carrying
a bundle.

"If de massa and him friend will stripee off de clothes Li will stain de
bodies of both wid dis stuff," he said, producing a gourd filled with
an oily liquid of reddish-brown colour. "Dey need not fear dat dis am
poison, for me tellee dem dat it only de juice of de betel-nut. When
deir bodies seen to, Li havee someting else for dem."

With a grin of pleasure at the thought of his success, and at the
rapidity with which he had carried out the matter, Li Sung accompanied
Tyler and John Marshall to their bivouac, where the latter quickly
removed their clothing. Then, with a splintered end of bamboo which he
had pounded between a couple of smooth boulders till it was as pliable
and soft as any brush, the Chinaman set about the work of transforming
them from clear-complexioned Englishmen to the colour of Dyaks. Twice
did he go over the surface of their bodies, and then, standing some
paces away, he inspected them critically, his head on one side and a
comical air of severity and anxiety upon his features. As for the two
young fellows, they stood before him with grave faces, which bore only
the smallest traces of trouble, for they were confident of the ability
of Li Sung to convert them to the appearance of Dyaks.

"After all," said Tyler, with a little laugh which he attempted to make
careless in tone, "we need only be disguised sufficiently to escape
detection at some distance, for if the enemy actually come within a few
paces of either of us it will be a case of fighting, for they are bound
to discover that we are not what we seem to be. You must recollect that
we do not speak more than a few words of the language."

