"But de massa may pass with oders who am plenty able to talkee Dyak,"
cried Li Sung. "S'pose him go soon to de strong place of de pirates and
wish to enter. Den if he stay behind de oders, and not seem to have de
lead, one of de warriors speakee to de enemy. But me not satisfied. One
little moment and me see how you lookee. Massa and him friend must put
on de Dyak cloths."

Unfastening the bundle which he had brought under his arm, and which
was enclosed in a couple of enormous leaves, he produced a couple of
the loin-cloths worn by the natives, and also two gaudy handkerchiefs
to bind about their heads. Within them were wrapped two pairs of neat
sandals manufactured by the Dyaks, and composed of thin slips of
flexible bamboo thickly padded with strips of skin.

"De hide make him soft to de feet," explained Li Sung, holding them up
for inspection with great pride. "Den dey velly silent, so dat massa
and him friend can comee plenty near to de pirate without making noise.
Now for de betel-nut and de stain again. Please to open de mouth of you
both, and Li him paint de teeth."

Baring their teeth in obedience to his wish, both Tyler and John
Marshall submitted to the operation of having them coloured
reddish-brown with the stain, and then chewed at the nut which their
Chinese helper had thrust between their lips.

"I suppose that it is a custom which one has to acquire," remarked Tyler
with a grimace. "I must say that if I had any choice in the matter I
would rather not chew anything, and least of all the betel-nut. Still,
all the natives have the habit, and it will be as well for us to develop
it also."

"I'd rather a plug of twist any day," grunted John in disgust. "Sour!
Why, this here betel's worse than anythin'. But as yer say, it's for
the best, and as I reckon our safety'll depend upon sich little things,
why--"

The boatswain turned the nut into his other cheek with another
exclamation of disgust, and set to work to chew it with an air of
resignation which called a smile to Tyler's features. A moment later the
Chinaman again demanded their attention.

