"P'r'aps de massa and him friend smilee at de China boy," he said in
engaging tones. "Me wishee to see how de mouths look, and then me tellee
you if de dress and eberyting am allee nicee."

Once more did Tyler and his companion follow the wishes of Li Sung,
and, turning towards him, opened their mouths and smiled, so as to show
their coloured teeth. Then they walked up and down the clearing while he
stared at them, his head still on one side, and his fingers grasping his
pigtail.

"Massa and de friend of massa will do plenty fine," he said at length.
"Dey Dyaks now in eberyting but de tongue, and him dey can keep still.
Li have done him best and am satisfied."

"And we too," responded Tyler. "But I have delayed long enough already,
and will at once set out to reconnoitre. John, take command of the camp
and of the tribe while I am gone. Li, you can come with me as far as the
liver, but after that you had better keep in the forest, for some of
your old comrades might recognize you."

At once there was a stir in the camp, while those who were to accompany
their leader hastily gathered their weapons together and prepared to
march. Then one of the scouts who had returned with the news that the
Sarebus river was at hand placed himself at the head of the little band
and led them into the forest, their departure being watched with the
greatest interest by all who remained behind. Indeed there was an air
of excitement and of anticipation about all the warriors, for upon the
report which their leader and his friends brought would depend their
future actions, and no doubt their success. Had it not been for the fear
that some of the enemy might be in the neighbourhood, hunting the forest
for game, the tribesmen would have shouted their farewell to their
leader, and would have accompanied him some distance on his journey.
As it was, however, they remained in the camp, and at once set about
placing themselves in a position of defence. As for Tyler, marching at
the head of his little band, he could not help but be gratified by the
willing obedience which each of the warriors gave him. That his change
in costume had won him still more of their esteem was evident also, for
they realized that he had made the alteration so as to assure the safety
of the tribe. Stalking ahead of them, Tyler found his sandals even more
comfortable than boots, while his light clothing, the fact that his
limbs were freer now than ever before, and that the heat was so great
that he had no feeling of being cold, made him more active than ever.
About his shoulder he still carried his rifle, while the betel-pouch
at his waist was filled with ammunition. In his waist-cloth, hidden by
the folds, were his revolvers, while a shield of enormous dimensions was
slung to his back for the sake of appearances alone.

