"Once within easy distance of the river we will search for a path,"
he said as Li Sung came up beside him. "Perhaps if the forest is very
dense, as seems to be the case close to the rivers, we will hunt for a
boat and borrow it. But then we should be more easily seen, and my aim
and object is to remain unobserved. One thing I am particularly anxious
to search for is a fleet of their prahus, for with boats at our command
we could laugh at Hanns Schlott and all his men."

"But dere are de booms to be thought of," said the Chinaman. "Dey are
below de forts, but sometimes, no one knowee when, dey am moved, and den
no prahu can sail down de river."

"Nothing would stop a fleet of boats coming down with wind and stream,"
answered Tyler, undismayed by the prospect which the Chinaman had
suddenly unfolded. "These booms will be made of bamboo and other trees,
and will be chained to the banks by means of enormous posts. Very well,
if the boom itself is too strong for us, we must hack the posts to
pieces. But the weight of the fleet alone should be enough. However,
that is a question for the future. For the present we have to think of
the pirates and their lair, and before considering booms have to come
across the prahus."

"Dat you will do plenty easy, massa. If de pirate at home de ships am
dere also. But me tink dat all de men better go out into de forest and
keep eye wide open."

"Then give them the order," said Tyler. "You and I will walk together,
and they can keep up with us by following the sounds."

Accordingly the men who formed the party which had set out from the
camp for the purpose of watching the enemy divided, and, plunging into
the trees on either hand, quickly became lost to view. Nor was it
possible to hear them, as a general rule, so silent were they in their
movements. At length, after a hot and weary tramp, the little band came
upon a narrow stream, which the scout at once proclaimed to be part of
the Sarebus river.

"We follow this for an hour," he said, "and then we strike the main
channel. Another half-hour will bring us to another river, which forks
with the one we shall be following, and with it pours into the wide bed
of the water-way which is known as the Sarebus. There will our leader
come upon the pirates, and at that spot he will see that they have a
town and many forts. I myself was there in the early hours, and at once
turned to come swiftly with the news. As for a path, there is one beside
the larger of the streams, and we shall be able to make use of it. Is it
our leader's wish that we push on?"

