"Do so at once," answered Tyler, Li Sung interpreting the words. "We
will halt when we come to the larger stream, and will then go more
carefully."

Once again did the little party set forward, and, plunging through
the trees, finally came to a spot where the smaller tributary emerged
into a larger one, which in its turn discharged its contents into the
main channel. And now each one prepared for instant flight or for
hostilities, and, unslinging weapons, advanced in a crouching attitude
beside the water.

"See, massa," suddenly whispered Li Sung when they had crept forward
half a mile, "there are de huts and de stockades or forts. Dat am Paddi,
de big place of de pirates, where all de gold and riches go, and where
de slaves am kept. Me knowee him velly well, for it am dere dat China
boy first taken when him captive, and from Paddi him pull down de river
on de prahu, for de first time in him life living wid de pirates."

"And the next time you sail to the sea let us hope it will be more
as your own master," murmured Tyler, scarcely able to repress his
excitement at the sight of the stockades before him. "But let us get to
some more advantageous point from which we can look down upon this place
which you say is called Paddi. Lead us into the bushes, Li, for you must
know better than anyone where we shall be able to obtain the best view."

Emboldened by the fact that no one seemed to be stirring in the
neighbourhood of the pirates' stronghold, and that not a single sampan
or boat of any description ferried across the water, the party of scouts
pressed on, led by the cunning Chinaman, and at length arrived at a spot
which permitted them to look over the walls of the bamboo stockade which
surrounded Paddi, and see all that was taking place within.

"One would almost imagine that the town had been deserted," remarked
Tyler in a whisper, after staring into the stronghold for some minutes.
"The huts seem for the most part to be empty, and so far I have seen
only women and a few old men and children. What can it mean? Surely
Hanns Schlott and his followers are not scared at the thought of our
coming."

