"De Dutchman am too wise and too bold for dat," answered Li Sung
emphatically. "Him havee some little game. Him gone into de forest,
p'r'aps, to find de white men and deir Dyak friends, or him at sea
looking out for oder ships to makee up for de loss of de schooner. Him
not deserted Paddi, dat China boy knowee for sure."

"For how long does he cruise away from this place?" asked Tyler
thoughtfully, after another long interval during which his eyes were
fixed upon the town which lay before him.

"P'r'aps one day, p'r'aps many. Li him not say for sure. If ships to be
found in plenty outside, he stay dere and take dem every one."

"We might even destroy the whole stronghold," murmured Tyler to himself,
"for it seems to me that it is practically without men. Of course I
don't like the thought of attacking a place which has only women and
children to defend it, but I would see that they were not harmed,
and, after all, the burning of this town would, I fear, be too big
an undertaking. Li once said that there were other places on this
river, and as they must be lower down it is probable that they would at
once take the alarm, and their prahus would put out into the river to
stop our escape. No, silence is what we must aim at, and a dark night
would be the best, only navigation then of the water-way would be very
difficult. As to Hanns Schlott and his men, it is clear that they are
away on an expedition, though whether in search of ourselves or not it
is difficult to decide. Where do you think that they have gone?" he
suddenly demanded, turning upon the Chinaman.

"Dat Li can only guessee at, massa. But dere no prahus here, and so
de China boy him tink dat de Dutchman and him Malays at sea looking
along de coast in case de white man and him friends come dat way. Oders
go into de forest and lie in wait along by de mountains. Scouts left
between de two, and when we am found de news taken to both de parties."

That the question was difficult to decide was clear, and for long Tyler
lay flat upon the ground, hidden in the undergrowth, thinking the matter
out; and all the while his eyes were busily engaged in taking in every
part of the town and forts of Paddi. Lying at the fork of the river,
the huts in which the pirates lived were protected on the water side by
stockades of bamboo, strongly erected and placed in most advantageous
positions, so that the Sarebus was commanded for some hundreds of
yards. In the rear there were other forts, but of less strength and
importance, for attack from that direction could not be very dangerous,
seeing that the forest was there of the densest, and would almost forbid
the approach of an enemy. Stretching across the mouths of each of the
tributaries which poured into the main channel, and between which lay
the town, were two enormous booms, awash in the water, and half-covered
with twigs and reeds which had been swept against them and caught. Each
boom was anchored by means of chain-cable to a tree on either shore,
while the same material bound the bamboos together.

