"A heavy ship would soon break through," thought Tyler, "but to light
boats the task would be a difficult one, and axes would be needed. But I
doubt very much whether the pirates place their prahus above the booms.
It is pretty certain that they anchor them in the river below, so as
to be able to drop down stream without a moment's delay. But in case
of attack in force by an enemy coming up the river I have little doubt
that they would swing one of the booms aside for a time until all the
prahus had passed through, and would then close it again. Well, nothing
is stirring, and for the time we must be content to remain where we
are and keep watch. If their fleet was here now I should call up all
the tribe and let them lie in the forest while I told them off to the
different boats. Then as soon as darkness fell we would slip aboard and
float down-stream. Once in safety we would search for our friends, and
if only the _Dido_ came in sight would lead an attacking-party against
the stronghold. Yes, that would be fine, but it is too bright a prospect
to hope for. It is more than likely that we shall have to fight for our
lives, and for the ships should the latter come upon the scene. Halloo!"

His exclamation, which was whispered in low tones, was caused by a
movement on the part of Li Sung and the Dyaks who lay beside him; for of
a sudden, while staring at the stronghold before them each had turned
his head to the right, while an onlooker could see that they were
listening intently.

"H-h-ush!" said the Chinaman, creeping closer to his leader. "We hearee
plenty noise down de stream, and we tink dat de pirates come. Li him
say dat de prahus am using de sweeps, and dat dere am many of dem. But
waitee a little longer and we see all. P'r'aps de enemy returning home
to search for us."

Lying there upon his face it was not long before Tyler too could
distinguish some distant sounds, and soon these came to his ear as the
splash of many oars. Then voices could be heard, sweeping up the surface
of the water, though as yet a bend in the banks of the Sarebus hid
the oncomers from view. Ah! Each of the watchers gave vent to a gasp
of surprise, for of a sudden a huge prahu came into sight, her decks
loaded with dusky pirates, while, above, an immense spread of sail
flapped loosely against her masts. On either side projected some twenty
long sweeps, and, propelled by these, she was coming up the stream at a
wonderful rate. In an instant Tyler recognized her as the vessel which
had lain in the harbour of Singapore, and the one to which Hanns Schlott
had retreated when beaten back by the Dyak tribe. Nor was it long before
he caught sight of the rascally leader, the man who had murdered Mr.
Beverley, for, thanks to the pace at which she was driven, the prahu
was very quickly sweeping before them, and a glance showed the Dutchman
standing in his old place at the helm, his eyes fixed upon the town of
Paddi before him.

