"He is anxious to learn whether there is any news of us," thought Tyler,
"and I am sure that he has not the faintest notion that we are watching
him at this moment. Wait, my friend, and I will show you that an English
lad can beat you, even though you have so many villains to count upon
and to come to your aid. But what is coming now?"

His gaze left the leading prahu and went back to the bend of the
Sarebus, round which other vessels were now appearing. But on this
occasion their progress was slower, though it seemed that they were
employing a similar number of sweeps. But closer inspection soon showed
the reason, for a rope was seen stretching taut behind the foremost to a
second prahu, which again was made fast to a third.

"Towing something, a prize of some sort," said Tyler, "and in a few
seconds we shall be able to see. Perhaps they have been making a raid
upon some of the neighbouring towns, or have captured a prahu sailing
with merchandise from Singapore. By Jove!"

A startled cry escaped his lips as another object came round the bend;
and well it might, for, dragged into sight at the tail of the last of
the three prahus, came a vessel of European build, with high bulwarks
and tapering masts, which seemed to strike against the trees which
overhung the river. On her deck were some ten of the Malays, with long
poles in their hands with which to propel her should she come to shallow
water and show signs of holding there. In addition, four of their
comrades had placed themselves in the bows, and were busily seeing to
the anchor, preparing to let it go.

"Where could the ship have come from? Who was the owner, and what had
became of the unfortunate crew?" Tyler found himself wondering vaguely,
and attempting to find a solution to the questions. "The last is easy
to reply to," he said bitterly. "Hanns and his rascals will have killed
them without mercy, and will have thrown them overboard. But a European
vessel! That must be a prize indeed, and adds another to the many
serious crimes which Hanns Schlott has committed. But they are nearly
at their berth, and we shall see what is to happen; and here are other
prahus coming round the bend."

