Breathless with excitement, and almost unable to remain still in hiding,
he watched eagerly the scene taking place before his eyes. It was
evident that the pirates were filled with elation at their capture, and
that they had returned to their stronghold in the best of spirits, for
they shouted to one another, and as the walls of the fort were lined
with their women and children, they answered their cries of welcome with
thunderous shouts of joy and triumph. Then, as the leading prahu came
opposite the first of the stockades, and within a stone's-throw of the
boom across the entrance to the river beside which Tyler was hiding,
she was thrown into the wind, the sweeps were taken in, and an anchor
dropped. Almost at the same moment a big sampan splashed from her deck
and Hanns Schlott descended into it.

"Let all come to their moorings and bring our prizes ashore," he called
out so loudly that the words came clearly to the ears of the watchers
and were promptly interpreted by Li Sung. "When we have had a meal we
will see to that beggarly Englishman who is journeying this way, and I
shall hope to hear from the men whom we sent towards the mountains that
they have sighted them, and are merely awaiting our help to fall upon
them and kill every one of the tribe, their leaders included."

Waving his arm to his followers he sprang into the sampan, his bulky
weight causing the frail boat to rock dangerously and ship some water.
Then the oarsman, who stood in the stern with a couple of long paddles,
the handles of which crossed, bent to his work and ferried his leader
to the forts. A minute later and the rascally Dutchman had disappeared
behind the stockade, and later on was seen to enter the largest of the
huts which lay inside. By now the remaining prahus had reached their
moorings, and at once a busy scene ensued, the men dropping into their
sampans, which the majority of the vessels had in tow, and taking the
ropes to the barrels and kegs which floated on the surface of the
river with an anchor or a heavy stone to hold them to the bottom. As
for the big ship which had fallen a prize, her new crew kept her with
head up-stream, and conscious that she would require more than a single
anchor, for the stream came strong and swift, sent out a couple of extra
cables which were made fast to trees which grew on the bank. Then they
prepared to leave her and go to their homes.

