"Let us hope that they will remain there over the night," said Tyler in
a whisper, scarcely able to repress the excitement with which he was
filled. "Or better, perhaps they will send off a large party to join
those who have gone to the mountains in search of ourselves, leaving
fewer for us to deal with. How many men do you think there are?"

"First count de prahus, massa, and den easy tell. Dey carry fifty to
eighty on board, and sometimes more. Plenty men dere, massa."

At once Tyler and the Chinaman set to work to count the prahus assembled
at their moorings, and, thanks to the fact that all had come well
round the bend, they had little difficulty at arriving at their correct
numbers.

"Fifty-four prahus," said Tyler with something approaching a groan, for
the odds were desperately against them. "With, say, sixty on board each
there will be three thousand of the pirates to deal with, and we are
only to be counted as about three hundred. The numbers are dreadfully
against us, and were it not for the fact that we hope to take them at a
disadvantage, and also that our object is to disappear when they shows
signs of collecting together to attack in force, I should feel quite
disheartened. But we shall see."

"And massa him must keep in him mind dat some of dese men havee gone to
de mountains, and dat oders will follow dem. Den we plenty fine numbers
to fight them, and de Dyaks show dem dat dey have something to punish
dem for. Wait a little bitee, massa. De time comee velly velly soon for
de Dyaks to shout and laugh, and for de pirate to run. Li him feel velly
sure of dat."

The Chinaman gave a knowing nod, and once more turned to the prahus
to go over each one again and count them on his fingers, while his
slit-like eyes followed the movements of their crews closely as they
prepared to leave.

"Dey all plenty fine spirit," he said suddenly, as though a thought had
occurred to him. "Dey havee returned to deir place wid a velly great
ship, and dey feel dat dey am rich. Wait, and massa see dat dey go to
deir homes and make jolly. To-night dey dance and sing, and de women
come round de watch-fires wid plenty to drink. Den, as de ashes die
down, and all am cold and dark, dey creep into de hut and sleep like
pig."

