He looked at his young leader with an encouraging smile, and snored
heavily, the better to show his meaning.

"To-night am de time for de Dyaks and for massa," he went on earnestly.
"Dey creep to dis spot and dey wait and watch. Soon as de fires die
down and de men crawl off to deir beds dey cross de river. Dey go to
Paddi like de ghosts, and only de night know. Den massa give one little
signal, and ebery man of de tribe creep and run dis way and dat into
de huts. Take velly little time to kill all of de pirates, and den de
Dyaks smile and laugh. Dey go to de prahus, and dey cut de ropes. Den in
de morning dey find demselves at sea, and plenty soon sail rightee to
Sarawak."

Carried away by the thought of the possible victory in store for
those in whose company he was, the Chinaman forgot for the moment his
accustomed tranquillity. His usually impassive features became wrinkled
as he indulged in a smile, while he turned to Tyler with questioning
eyes as if to demand his approval.

"Can't be done," said the latter curtly, favouring him with a frown.
"Englishmen do not fight in that manner, and I would never consent to
killing a single one of the pirates while in his sleep. It would be
murder, and that I cannot think of. No, I know well that they deserve
such a death, for who can say how many poor unhappy people the ruffians
have killed in cold blood? Who that does not know all of their doings
can tell how many deaths they are responsible for, what miseries they
have caused? But men of my country do not make war in such ways. Fight
openly, if at all, is our motto, and it is one which I will carry out
to the letter. There shall be no massacre, but if necessary we will
fight them for the prahus, and do our best to beat them handsomely. As
to their being overcome by wine to-night, I hope that that may be the
case, for it will help us greatly. We will wait till they are quiet and
will then steal upon their boats. If we are cautious and organize the
movement well we shall be able to embark all the woman and children and
each member of the tribe without making a sound and without alarming the
pirates. Then we will cut the cables, as you suggested, and drift down
upon the stream till we are in the open sea. After that Sarawak shall be
our destination, where these poor Dyaks shall find a home. I shall have
more to do then, for at the first opportunity I shall offer to be the
guide for an expedition to Paddi, with the object of hunting out these
pests and of capturing their leader. But I see that the majority of the
crews have already set foot ashore, and soon the prahus will be left to
themselves."

