Once more there was silence between them, the Chinaman lying there in
perplexity, wondering at the words which his leader had given vent to.

"Not take advantage of the pirates, the men who had harmed the Dyaks
so often and so severely, and slay them in their beds!" To this man of
the East it was the maddest and strangest of decisions, and his cunning
mind, trained to take advantage of an enemy in any manner, failed to
grasp its meaning. "Could his young master have suddenly lost his
wisdom?" he asked himself. "Was it possible that the sight of all these
pirates had brought fear into his heart, so that he refused the only
course open to brave men?" For long did Li Sung ponder over the matter
till he was bound to confess that he was bewildered. Indeed, a very
little consideration had shown him that the Englishman, who alone had
attacked the mias, was not the one to be so easily scared, and then,
all through the march, it was Tyler who had shown coolness and courage,
and whose fine example of cheerfulness and whose bright view of the
future had encouraged the tribe of Dyaks, and had converted them from a
downtrodden dispirited race to one which was filled with energy and with
confidence in themselves.

"Li Sung him not see velly fine how you not do as him say," he whispered
in tones of perplexity, taking his pigtail in his hand and twisting it
into a knot. "If not fall on de pirate when him sleep, and when him
heavy wid wine, den dey allee escape and de Dutchman come to worry us
again."

"When we shall be fully prepared for him," answered Tyler with a smile.
"It is useless to suggest such a course as a wholesale massacre, for
it is one which I will never consent to. We will beat them fairly and
handsomely, and once we join our friends we will throw our lot in with
theirs and will help them to exterminate these rascals. But I think that
it is almost time that we were moving in the direction of our friends,
for if we are to make the attempt to capture their boats to-night we
shall have little time to lose. Signal to the other men, Li Sung, and
tell them to make ready."

