"One little minute, massa. De big ship not empty, and Li him tink dat
dere someting dere to keep us. De Malays still on board, and dey have
shouted for anoder sampan. Perhaps dey bring de bags of gold which dey
have captured from de English, and look, massa, me see de name of de
ship."

He pointed to the stern of the captured vessel, which had swung round
with the stream sufficiently to allow the name painted there to be
legible, and instantly Tyler read _The Queen_, Liverpool.

"English!" he gasped. "Then there is all the more reason why I should
take her from these men. But wait. What is happening?"

As he spoke, the remaining Malays came running upon deck and went
towards the side where the sampan lay, with something in their midst.
Arrived at the rail they lifted their burden over and returned to
the companion ladder which led to the cabin, only to repeat the same
movement. Then two of their number swung themselves into the boat and
began to paddle her to the shore. A minute later the little sampan had
swung clear of the vessel's side, and was visible to the watchers, who
at once gave vent to cries of surprise.

"Prisoners!" exclaimed Tyler, starting to his knees and thrusting his
head so far between the leaves that Li Sung placed a warning hand upon
his arm. "White prisoners, too, and, as I live, they are not men."

"The one is little more than a babe, massa," broke in the Chinaman,
"while the other is a woman of twenty years."

Not daring to move, lest they should attract attention to themselves,
and yet filled with eagerness to rush forth and rescue the hapless
prisoners who had fallen into the hands of the pirates, Tyler and his
followers watched with staring eyes as the sampan was rowed to the
shore. They saw a little girl of some seven years of age lifted from the
boat, and gazed with saddened faces as she turned with outstretched hand
to clasp that of the young woman who accompanied her. Then they watched
as the two white and forlorn figures were led into the stockade and were
ushered into a hut.

