"Time to be returning," said Tyler suddenly, and in such determined
tones that the Chinaman was startled. "Give the word and let us hurry."

Without waiting for his followers he sprang to his feet and went off
through the jungle, his brow deeply furrowed and his mind full of the
last scene which he had witnessed.




CHAPTER XI

A Midnight Encounter


Six hours and more had passed since Tyler and his little band of Dyak
followers had witnessed the passage of the two helpless captives from
the English vessel to the pirates' stronghold, and already darkness had
fallen over the island of Borneo. The scream of thousands of parrots,
the chatter and hoarse voice of many a monkey, had ceased for the night,
while the hush of the forest, which but for birds and monkeys would have
been almost unbroken during the hot day, had now been replaced by the
buzz and hum of myriads of insects, and by the calls and weird cries of
other denizens of the jungle whose habit it was to set out during the
hours of darkness in search of their food.

What were those objects filing in and out between the trees, each so
ghost-like and so silent? Were they human beings lost in the jungle, or
a collection of wild beasts? Well might the question have been asked,
had anyone happened to catch sight of them, for they came without so
much as a sound, each one treading noiselessly where the other had been,
all bent low as if to escape the overhanging boughs, and everyone with
eyes which glared into the depths of the dark forest. Occasionally the
weird note of some animal in advance came to their ears, and instantly
they lifted their heads for a second, and then changed their direction.
In front marched a lithe and active leader, and happening to emerge at
that moment from the darkness of the forest the pale rays of a small
moon, which had risen early and would soon be gone, fell upon him and
showed that it was Tyler. Then these were, after all, human beings, and
none other than the tribe of Dyaks who were on their way to Sarawak.
Yes, led by our hero, who had returned from the haunt of the pirates,
the Dyaks were on their way to the spot before which floated the fleet
of prahus upon the possession of which their safety depended.

