"Remember the orders," said Tyler, as he emerged into the clearing,
turning to a swarthy native beside him, whose features bore an
unmistakable resemblance to those possessed by John Marshall. "We
arrive at the place agreed upon, and the men at once divide as already
arranged. Then the leaders of the companies come to me and we discuss
the situation. After that we set about the embarkation without delay.
Now get back to your own men, for they will miss you."

With an involuntary lift of his hand to his head, as was the custom
aboard ship, the boatswain turned in obedience to the order, and
threaded his way through the trees till he arrived at the rear of the
procession, where he sat down till the tribe moved forward again.
Meanwhile Tyler stood in the centre of the clearing, waiting till his
scouts brought news that no one was at hand.

"We can advance in safety again," said Li Sung some minutes later, as a
dusky figure crept silently to their side and whispered something in the
Chinaman's ear. "De report of de man sent to de front is dat de forest
am alone, and dat de pirate shout and makee merry."

"Then lead the way again," was Tyler's curt answer, "and let us not stop
until we are in position. All this waiting is trying, and I am sure that
we shall all be glad when we are in sight of our object."

Once more the column of ghost-like figures pushed on into the jungle,
and, undismayed by the noise of distant revelry, which soon came to
their ears, at length arrived at the spot from which the landing of
Hanns Schlott and his men had been watched. And here the tribe settled
itself in the undergrowth with such readiness that it was easy to tell
that they had been drilled to the movement.

"The women and children are together?" asked Tyler of John, as the
latter came to his side. "And there are an equal number of men to help
them to embark?"

"Jest as you said, sir. The poor things is crouching there in the bush,
a shiverin' at the noise them pirates is makin' and wondering what'll
happen to 'em and their babies. But it'll be all right in the end, for I
reckon that we're jest goin' to give that chap Hanns Schlott the slip,
and sail right away without his being a penny the wiser. What's next,
sir?"

