"Wait and watch till those fellows are silent and have turned in for
the night. Then we will see about the prahus. There should be no delay
about that part of the work, for the men have been told off, and they
know exactly how many of the vessels we mean to take. You see, as I
returned from this spot I thought the whole matter out, and I could see
at once that if we were to arrive before the pirate's stronghold without
any plans for escape, everything would be muddled in the darkness, and
the alarm probably given. As you say, John, we want to get clear away
without a suspicion reaching the Dutchman, and we shall feel all the
more successful if we contrive that not one of our tribe is overlooked
and left behind for the pirates to kill. It was for that reason that I
suggested practising the embarkation, and, thanks to that precaution, I
think that each and every one knows the work he has to do. Once those
fellows go to bed we shall swim across to their sampans, and while some
return to this shore, the remainder will lie down and prepare to beat
back the enemy should they take the alarm."

"And that's my partic'lar part of the job," exclaimed John Marshall
quickly. "It's jest the one to suit me, too, for I owe 'em one and hope
to repay it."

"If they attack, you will give them trouble, no doubt," said Tyler
sternly. "But recollect, there must be no noise on any account, and
however much you desire to come to blows with these men of the river,
you are to avoid doing so on this occasion if you possibly can. Later
on, when we have joined in with those of Sarawak, you may have an
opportunity. Indeed, I sincerely hope that you will. But for this time
silence is essential. And now to go on with our plans; and by the way,
John, if I have missed a point be sure to tell me of it. We line the
farther shore, and half our numbers return with some of the sampans.
The embarkation then commences, and when it is ended, those who can be
spared go to the empty prahus and scuttle them, cutting them adrift when
the signal is given. When word reaches me that all is ready--"

