"You'll come to us, and we'll get aboard the sampans and join our
friends," whispered John, giving vent to a low chuckle which denoted his
pleasure at the prospect. "And then we'll up anchor and away. I guess
that the stream'll carry us clear of the banks, and if we do happen to
hit up against one, it won't matter so very much, for the mud will do
our timbers no harm, and a push with a couple of poles will soon send us
off again. Then we'll be in the ocean afore you can turn yer head."

"Quite so," replied Tyler calmly; "but before that happens we have
another little matter to carry out. You have forgotten the woman and the
child, my friend."

"But you ain't--" gasped the boatswain, peering into his face as well
as the darkness would permit. "You don't mean to say as though you're
thinkin' of them. Why--"

Evidently the idea of such a project had never entered the sailor's
head, and no wonder, considering the magnitude of the task which he and
his young leader had set themselves. And now that all was settled, and
it almost seemed that they were at the end of their long and arduous
journey, something else had cropped up to delay them and endanger their
safety.

"But what about the tribe? Suppose you get nabbed by that 'ere Hanns!"
he said, swinging round upon Tyler as the thought startled him. "It's
risking a lot for the sake of two whom yer never did more than set eyes
on. Are yer sure yer mean it, sir?"

"Quite!" was Tyler's emphatic answer. "We cannot retire from this place
and leave them to their fate. The thing is impossible! As for risk, of
course there is that, and it will be increased by the attempt to enter
the stronghold. But, then, the alarm will not in that case come so early
as to ruin all our plans, for the bulk of the tribe will be embarked,
and a cut with a sword will set the prahus free. Pursuit on the part of
this gang of rascals will be out of the question, as we shall have taken
the majority of their vessels, while the remainder will, I hope, be at
the bottom of the river. So that we should only have to face the pirates
who live below, and I think that we can do that cheerfully."

