"We'd beat them and more like 'em," exclaimed the boatswain with energy.
"But what about yerself? Ain't you runnin' the chance of getting took by
the Dutchman? in which case he'd make an end of yer on the spot."

"One must expect danger in such cases, and must consider whether the
rescue of those poor captives is worth it," responded Tyler calmly.
"For my part I should be ashamed to meet James Brooke of Sarawak or the
commander of the _Dido_ if I were to leave this spot without making at
least an attempt. Why, consider their position, John. Two poor, helpless
things at the mercy of these men!"

"Ay, and one of 'em's a child, and t'other ain't no more than twenty,"
murmured the sailor. "You're right, sir, and I oughtn't never to have
wanted yer to clear from the river without taking them with yer. Yer
couldn't do it, as yer say. Them shipmates what'll be yours as soon as
yer reach the _Dido_ wouldn't forgive yer for such a act And how can I
help yer?"

"By remaining at your post on the farther shore, and by rushing forward
if there is trouble. If not, all that you will have to do will be to see
the poor things safely on board one of the prahus, and then follow at
your best pace. On the other hand, if I am discovered, and the pirates
rush down in force, you and your men will have to take to the river and
leave me to myself. After all, the safety of the whole tribe must not be
endangered for the life of one man."

"It all depends on who he is," was John's dogged reply. "If jest one of
themselves, p'r'aps not. If their leader, the chap as come along to save
'em in the first place from these here fellers, the one what's led 'em
all this distance, why, I tell yer that they won't move till you're dead
or with 'em. But it ain't coming to that, sir. You'll manage to rescue
them two without giving so much as a sound, and we'll all find ourselves
in Sarawak afore we can think it possible. We've everything jest cut and
dried, and as soon as them 'ere fellers'll clear off to bed we'll set to
at the job."

