Having come to a decision on the matter, and settled every point which
occurred to them, the two lay silently upon the bank, their eyes fixed
upon the blazing fires beyond, and upon the outline of the stockade
which stood out clearly against the dark background of the forest. That
the Malays, and their friends the sea Dyaks, were making merry was
very evident, for they lay about the blazing logs in great numbers,
while the women tended to their wants. As for the Dutchman, the night
was too hot to allow of his eating in comfort within the large shed
which he occupied when at the stronghold, and instead, he sat at a
roughly-improvised table, composed of a large packing-case, which was
placed before his door. Before him burnt a bright fire, while several of
the native women hung about him, bringing food and wine to his board. So
clearly, indeed, was he outlined by the light that it might have been
possible to pick him off with a rifle, and Tyler even lifted his weapon
to his shoulder. An instant later, however, he had dropped it with an
exclamation of disgust, and once more contented himself with watching
the Dutchman.

"It would be like murdering the lot in their beds," he said to himself,
"just the thing that would appeal to men of his class and to fellows
like Li Sung, who know no better and who are brought up to that way
of killing their enemies. But to an Englishman it is impossible, and
besides, the shot might and might not be successful, while it would
certainly give the alarm and bring a hundred and more of the pirates
rushing across in this direction. Ah, there is food going to the
prisoners! So that it is clear that they are to be well treated for the
time being. I will watch what is happening."

As he spoke, two women advanced across the open space which was enclosed
by the bamboo stockade, and, arriving at the tiny hut which harboured
the captives, entered with a platter of food and a gourd of water. Ten
minutes later they emerged again, dragging the woman with them, while
the child followed behind, weeping bitterly at the scene.

