"Brutes!" thought Tyler; "but I am sure that the captives' lives are not
threatened, for otherwise they would not have fed them. Ah, they are
being taken to the Dutchman!"

Directing their steps to the spot where Hanns Schlott sat, the native
women dragged their captive up to his table and forced her to seat
herself upon a box close at hand; then they stood beside her while the
leader of the pirates spoke with her, and amused himself at the obvious
terror under which she laboured. As for the child, she clung to her
white companion, and stood looking at the man who had suddenly come so
prominently into her life as if he were a monster, as indeed he was.

"The Dutchman is jeering at them, that is evident," said Tyler to
himself, as he looked on at the distant scene. "I only wish that I was
beside him to hear what he was saying, so that I could punish him later
on. One would have thought that any man would have taken pity upon those
poor things, but he is a hardened villain, and I really believe that
they would receive better treatment from the natives. Now he is sending
them back, and let us hope that very soon he and his followers will take
themselves off to their beds."

For three hours in succession did our hero and his followers lie in
the jungle with their eyes glued upon the distant lair of the pirates.
Indeed it seemed as though Hanns Schlott and his men had made up their
minds to sit the hours of darkness out, and to indulge in revelry till
morning came, for they made no movement to go to their huts, and instead
remained grouped about the fires.

"Supposing they stayed there till daylight came? What if they never went
to their beds, but as soon as morning was come jumped into their sampans
and entered the forest in search of fruit or some other food."

Tyler asked himself the questions, and sat bolt upright as he puzzled
for an answer. Then he sank back into his old position with an air of
resignation.

"Then they must look to themselves," he said to himself. "If they come
this way they will certainly discover us, and we shall have to fight for
our lives. But it occurs to me that they would be taken by surprise,
and that they might easily think that we were another lot of pirates
attacking them, and not the fugitives whom they are hoping to waylay
on their journey to Sarawak. That being the case we must take a bold
course, and I shall at once make for the prahus. All the men and many of
the women and children can swim as well as they can walk, and we will
dive into the river without delay. A few minutes should see us masters
of the fleet of prahus, and little time would be taken in embarking the
remainder of our party. Then we would sail for the sea, and trust to
our men to beat off any who might follow. Yes, now that I come to think
of the matter I am sure that a bold course will pay us best, though,
if possible, we will get away without discovery; for their numbers are
very large, while ours are small. Then again, by putting off the attack
we shall be able perhaps to return on a later date, and with a European
force, when I feel sure that the days of the pirates will be ended. But
Hanns is moving. The rascal is going to talk with his men."

