Rising from the rough table at which he had eaten, the Dutchman walked
across the clearing and entered into conversation with his men.
Evidently he had something pleasant to propose, for they all sprang to
their feet and set up a shout of joy. Then some of their number raced
off to a certain portion of the stronghold, and returned very shortly
with enormous jars upon their shoulders.

"Drink to our success!" shouted Hanns Schlott, motioning to all to help
themselves. "Drink death to the hated Englishmen who have escaped us so
far, and a quick end to all who may try to oppose us in the open sea. We
are the only men in and about Borneo, and I am the only leader who can
bring you fortune and much gold. Fill up, then, and drink to the future."

Waiting till all had filled the rough gourds which did duty for mugs,
the Dutchman lifted his glass to his lips and drained it at a draught.
Then he repeated the process with a swaggering air, and having done so
strolled off to his seat once more.

"Now enjoy yourselves!" he shouted out as he retired. "There is wine
in plenty, so do not spare it, for the English ship has a big store to
replace what you may happen to use. Drink, then, and dance, for now you
have the time, while to-morrow you will be marching through the jungle
on the way to catch the white-faces, and those who were foolish enough
to throw in their lot with them. For myself, I have much to think of,
for remember, your safety, your success depend upon me. And therefore I
will retire at once, leaving you to follow at your wish."

With a lordly wave of the hand he went to his hut and disappeared
within, leaving his men to themselves. Nor were they slow in following
his advice as to making merry, for up to now they had but lain basking
in the heat of the numerous fires which blazed in the clearing. Now,
however, stimulated by the extra allowance of wine, and by the thought
that there was more to follow, they leapt to their feet and began to
dance in circles, while their womenfolk beat time upon the ground with
their hands. And when one lot of natives were exhausted, and had thrown
themselves upon the earth beside the fires, to lie there panting till
refreshment was brought them, others sprang to take their places, and
the mad dance was carried on.

