"Someone moving there," said our hero decidedly. "A boat, I think,
though it is so dark in that direction that one cannot distinguish
anything. There! I heard a splash as if a sampan had been dropped into
the water, or an anchor had been let go. Hush!"

"And them's voices," came from the boatswain in the lowest of whispers.
"You can hear 'em coming over the water as plain as if they was
alongside of this very spot. What'll it be? Pirates come to have a fight
with these here fellers? or friends?"

"Dey friends, I tink," said a voice at their side, causing Tyler and his
companion to give a start of surprise. "Li Sung and de Dyak hear dem
plenty time ago as dey float down de oder river, and from de very first
we tink dat dey de men who am sent to de mountains to meet us. P'r'aps
not, but me feel velly certain."

"Then they must have had some reason for returning," exclaimed Tyler
anxiously, "for, no doubt, their orders were strictly to the effect
that they were to lie in wait till we came along, and then send news to
the stronghold, while they followed our tracks. This is serious, for it
proves that they know more than we gave them credit for. Can they have
already discovered that we have made directly in this line with the
intention of falling upon their ships? Or do they imagine, because they
have not seen us near the mountain range, that we have turned back and
abandoned the journey?"

"Me cannot say, but me velly sure dem am de ones de Dutchman send off to
de mountain," repeated the Chinaman with an emphatic wag of his head.
"But keep little silence and velly soon we hear, for dey go into de
stockade and speak to deir friends."

Conscious that they could do nothing for the present, for as yet the
revellers still lounged before their fires, and a sudden dash upon the
ships would have been doomed to failure, Tyler and his friends crouched
in the jungle, fretting at the delay, chafing at the thought that even
now something might have occurred to upset all their carefully-prepared
plans, and with minds filled with anxious forebodings. And behind them,
in every attitude, crouched the remainder of their followers, a prey for
the most part to vague fears, which, in spite of their new spirit and of
the fact that they had a trusted leader, would assail them however much
they fought to be brave.

