Would these men, these new-comers, join with their brothers and spend
the night in revelry, or would they go to their huts at once and rest
after an arduous march? The questions troubled Tyler considerably, and
think as he would he could find no solution, for as yet it was not even
certain that the men who manned the vessel which had just brought-to
against the farther boom, and whose voices had been heard across the
water, were those who had been sent to the mountains to waylay the
Englishman and his Dyak followers. Perhaps they would turn out to be
friends on a visit to the pirates.

Then did these rovers of the river and sea possess any who could
be called by that name? Could any of their neighbours trust them
sufficiently, or be trusted by the Dutchman and his men?

"It is out of the question," said Tyler to himself. "If these fellows
were on a visit they would send someone ahead to announce their coming,
for otherwise it is more likely that a bullet or the contents of one of
those brass cannon which are mounted on the stockade would greet them.
It is clear that they belong to Hanns Schlott and his gang, and that
being the case I shall be astonished if they do not prove to be the ones
sent to capture us or to gain tidings of our approach. But if so, why
have they returned?"

With head firmly held between his hands he endeavoured to think the
matter out and come to a satisfactory conclusion. Then with a gesture of
disgust he put it aside, and, uncovering his eyes, again stared in the
direction of the second river.

"The future must tell," he whispered in John's ear. "We will wait
patiently, and should it turn out that these men are from the mountains,
and know of our presence near at hand, we will at once set about the
capture of the prahus and the embarkation of the tribe. That done we
shall be able to sail away to the sea, where we can laugh at them. At
least, you and the others will be able to do so."

"And what about yerself, sir?" demanded John Marshall with a start,
turning upon him suddenly and peering anxiously into his face. "Ain't
you a-coming? Do yer mean to say that after all you've gone through you
mean to get left behind? I reckon it would be murder. It's suicide, and
nothing else."

