He gave vent to an indignant snort, and lay there staring into the
darkness in the direction of the new-comers, as if he could not trust
himself to look any longer at his leader. A moment later, however, he
had swung his head round again and had grasped Tyler by the wrist.

"What's the game?" he demanded roughly, and in a curiously hoarse
whisper. "Still thinkin' of the kid and her nurse? What are yer after?"

"I'm considering their case," was Tyler's cool answer. "I have put
myself in their position and asked myself whether I should like to be
deserted under the circumstances. Then I have imagined that I am someone
else, who is the leader on this occasion, and I have wondered what he'd
do in such a case."

"Do! He'd clear with a whole skin as a general rule!"

"And what action would you take, John, if you were in my shoes? Imagine
that for a few seconds, and recollect that as the leader you would be
responsible for the safety of each and every member before you thought
of a haven for yourself. The child and the woman, who, I suppose, is her
nurse, are there. We saw them put into the hut, and we have already
made them part of our following. Would you desert them and leave them in
the clutches of that tiger?"

It was Tyler's turn now to face his companion in the darkness, and
address him as though he had a grievance. It was he who now spoke curtly
and with roughness. Placing his lips close to the sailor's ear he spoke
sternly and shortly, in such determined tones that John Marshall was
amazed and astounded.

"Well?" Tyler demanded curtly again of the boatswain. "You are the
leader for the moment; will you clear from the spot and save your own
miserable skin, or will you hang back for the sake of the child and the
woman?"

There was a long pause ere the silence was broken between them, and all
the while John Marshall stared across at the blazing fires and at the
figures of the pirates lying about them. He heard as if in a dream the
sounds made by those who had lately put in an appearance, and watched
listlessly for their appearance in the stockade. But he was thinking
of someone else. In his mind's eye he pictured the child of seven, and
the woman, the only survivors of those who had been aboard the English
ship, and he remembered that they were of his own country, strangers,
and helpless strangers at that, in a foreign country, without friends to
help them, unless he and his bold young leader went to the rescue, and
took them from the clutches of Hanns and his men.

