What if he, John Marshall, of the mercantile marine, who prided himself
upon the fact of being a British sailor and a man, together with his
friend, Tyler Richardson, had failed to catch sight of the prisoners?
What if, knowing them to be so close at hand, they deserted them and
left them to their fate?

The boatswain almost started to his feet as this new side of the
question occurred to him; but a moment later he was lying down again,
with his face close to Tyler's.

"We'd be thunderin' curs!" he blurted out with a curious catch in
his breath. "You and me stands alone between them two and a life of
misery. And I was for making off with me tail between me legs! Bah. John
Marshall, you ain't half the chap you think!"

His disgust was so great that the better to express it he would have
brought his fist violently against the ground had not discretion
suddenly arrested his arm in the midst of the movement.

"Might wake 'em up over there," he said, as if to himself. "We can't
afford to be doin' that, for we've got to rescue the kid and the woman.
What's the idea, sir?"

"There is no idea as yet, John. All depends upon the pirates and their
friends who have lately arrived. If they settle down for the night we
shall be able to go on with the original programme. If not, then we
must see what can be done. But I will take all away or remain myself.
Supposing it is possible to embark the tribe, but we cannot get at
the captives, then I propose to remain behind in the forest, and try
on another occasion, or while they are absent in pursuit But, steady!
Something is occurring over there, and we had better listen."

Becoming silent at once they leaned as far towards the bank of the
river as the undergrowth would permit, and watched the spot where the
prahu had moored beside the boom. Thanks to the fires which blazed in
the central portion of the stockade, they were soon able to make out
her sails and her exact position, and even imagined that they could
observe the crew who still remained on board. Some minutes later
there was a movement amongst the latter, who disappeared from sight,
only to reappear within a short space of time at the entrance to the
stockade. And here they found nothing to prevent their moving forward,
for no enemies were expected, and, safe in the thought that they were
too powerful to fear a sudden attack, the pirates had neglected, as
was their wont, to close the gap which led through the timbers of the
stockade. With a shout some eighty men ran forward to the fires, and at
once mingled with their comrades.

