"The gate is open. You observe that?" whispered Tyler in accents
of delight "If they do not trouble to close it I shall have little
difficulty in entering where those men went, and in bringing the
captives out by the same way. What is going to happen now?"

"They have news, sir, and that's what's troubling 'em. I reckon they'll
soon bring the Dutchman out of his bed."

That something out of the ordinary had occurred was very obvious, for
whereas those of the pirates who had been lounging about the fires had
at first greeted their comrades who had just arrived with nonchalance
and with a few questions as to their success and as to the cause which
had brought about their return, now they had all endeavoured to leap
to their feet, and had set up a babel of shouts. Some, however, had
indulged in the wine which their leader had given them to such an extent
that they were beyond caring, and lay as still as logs. But many were
not so stupefied that they could not realize that something out of the
ordinary had happened, and crowding about their brothers they gave vent
to shouts which were louder and more angry on account of their condition.

"We took it for granted that you had killed them all, that you were
amongst us again with a tale to tell," cried one of them plaintively.
"And now you come amongst us at a time when we are tired out with our
day of work, and when we are about to sleep, and fill our ears with
news which should make us feel alarm. Surely you are mistaken. You have
allowed yourselves to be misled, for it is madness to imagine that those
white fools would dare to come this way."

"There is no madness about it so far as we can see," was the answer
of the one who had been the leader of the returned party. "What is
more natural than that these men should take the most direct line? for
otherwise, by going by way of the mountains, they would increase the
length of their journey by a great deal, a matter of much importance
when we have news that women and children accompany them. Then again,
by making for the river they run the chance of obtaining boats; and
remember, my comrade, to desperate men the idea of capturing prahus from
the very people whom they have to fear is not an impossibility."

