"Run away with our prahus! Take them from beneath our very noses!
Why, what can you have been doing? Surely you and those who went with
you have come upon a store of wine like ourselves, and have indulged
so freely that your minds are disturbed. Capture our fleet indeed! A
beggarly handful of starving Dyaks, with women and children to feed
and protect, and a couple of white-faces to lead them. The idea is
laughable!"

The man shouted the words at his companion, and then turned to his
comrades with a disdainful laugh and a half-drunken grimace which set
them roaring.

"He will say soon that we are in danger," broke in another, pushing his
way to the front, "and he will bid us fly to our wives to beg protection
from them. Quickly let me find my way to my own particular hut, where
dwells a woman who works hard all through the day, and has gained
thereby such strength that she will be able to beat off all whom the
white-faces may send."

He staggered away through the crowd, who stepped aside with many a
guffaw and roar of laughter, and went towards one of the huts near by.
As for his comrades, they enjoyed the joke immensely. It suited their
mood to a nicety, and, determined to make the most of it and enjoy
themselves to the full, they again crowded about the new-comers and
plied them with questions.

"Shall we run now? And where can we go?" demanded one of them, making
pretence to be full of terror.

"Do you say that we ourselves should get aboard the fleet at once,
dragging with us those who lie insensible about the fires, and sail for
the sea? There is much of the ocean outside, and there we might even
manage to escape these dangerous men!"

"And then, when they had in their largeness of heart decided to be
merciful, and had retired from this spot, we might even venture to
return to our homes," said the one who had first spoken, giving vent to
a sneer. "But come, my friends, admit that this is madness, or we shall
quarrel. Say that you are in error, and join us in our jollity."

