"We will do neither," was the indignant reply. "Here are we, returned
after much trouble and full of weariness, and you jeer at us and tell
us that we are fools. Were it not that you are our brothers we would
chastise you as you deserve."

The threat, to men in the excited condition of the pirates, who had been
lying about the fires and drinking the Dutchman's wine, was one which
could not be easily passed over, and besides, all belonged to a race
accustomed to bloodshed, and ready at any moment to resent an insult
or to repay a wrong with violence. Hardly, therefore, had the words
left the lips of the speaker than the two parties were on the verge of
a conflict. Glaring at one another as though they were the worst of
enemies, each member of the piratical gang seized the kriss which was
thrust in his waist-cloth and flashed it in the firelight. A little more
and angry words would have led to bloodshed had not an interruption
occurred. Fortunately for the gang, the noise of the altercation
had come to the Dutchman's ears, and just as blows were about to be
exchanged he came from his hut, looking dishevelled and as though he had
but just risen from his bed, as was the case. In an instant he realized
what was about to happen, and rushing forward with an angry shout he
threw himself upon the men, buffeting them, and kicking those within
reach of his foot unmercifully.

"Dogs!" he shouted wrathfully. "Have I not told you often and often that
there is to be no quarrelling, that you are to do no fighting except at
my bidding? Put your weapons away, then, or some of you shall be shot as
the dawn breaks. And now what is the trouble? What has caused you all to
lose your tempers? Ah, I see that those who were sent to the mountains
have returned! Then you have good news. You have come up with this
tribe of runaways, and have killed them. Where are the heads of those
white men?"

He started back in his astonishment when the leader of the party told
him that he and his companions had failed to discover the tribe under
Tyler's command, but that they had ascertained that they were making
direct for the very river where Hanns Schlott and his gang had their
head-quarters, perhaps with the intention of attacking.

