"We tracked them to within a very few miles," said the man, "and they
may even now be lying near at hand about to fall upon us. For that
reason we returned here at once and gave our warning to these men. But
they are fools, or rather their brains are dulled with the wine which
they have been drinking."

"And you will tell me that this white man and his tribe will attack us
here?" said Hanns Schlott suddenly, breaking into a derisive laugh. "Go
to your beds, men. It is clear that you are tired, or you would realize
that sane men do not put their heads into the open mouth of a lion; you
would see that attack from a puny force of three hundred at the most is
not to be feared by one which numbers more than three thousand. Get to
your huts, for a sleep will do you good. As for you other drunken dogs,
it is time that you, too, retired. To your couches, then, and let us
pass the remainder of the night in peace."

Without a second look in their direction he strode off to his own
abode, while his followers obeyed his orders like beaten curs, showing
that they held their Dutch leader in great fear. Soon the clearing was
deserted, and but for the fires, which were fast burning down, and for
one or two unconscious figures beside them, the stockade was deserted,
all having retired to their huts.

"And now comes the time for us," said Tyler in a voice which trembled,
so greatly was he excited. "Li Sung, you can go back to your men now
that you have told me all that went on over there, and you can send the
signal round. In three minutes the first company will be at the edge of
the water."

Gathering up his pigtail, the Chinaman slunk off into the darkness, and
ere long some fifty dusky and silent figures were creeping to the bank
of the Sarebus. A low hoot sounded in the night, and at the signal the
Dyak warriors, with Tyler and John Marshall at their head, lay flat upon
their faces and crept forward into the water. There was no wading, for
that would undoubtedly have given rise to much splashing. Instead, each
one immersed his body at once, and creeping along through the mud was
quickly in deep water. Then, breasting the stream, they turned to the
shelving bank above which was erected the bamboo stockade enclosing the
huts of the pirate gang.

