


CHAPTER XII

Captain of a Fleet


"Halt!" The whispered word of command to which Tyler gave vent once
he and his followers had set foot upon the opposite bank was scarcely
necessary, so well did each man understand his duties, and so sensibly
did they act. But Li Sung interpreted the order, and instantly some
fifty dripping figures came to a stand-still and dropped full length
upon the mud.

"Advance those who have to keep watch and beat back the enemy," said
Tyler, with difficulty keeping calm. "John, that is your command. Post
the men so as to hold the entrance, and look out for me when I come. Now
for the boat party."

Leading half the company to the left, he took them to the spot where the
sampans were drawn up on the beach, and stood by while the men carried
the tiny boats down into the water. Then, as silently as ghosts, they
pushed off from the bank, half the number making direct for the opposite
shore, while the remainder drifted down-stream to the prahus.

"Commence to embark the women and children and the remaining men," said
Tyler, as soon as the party which he had accompanied had reached the
opposite bank. "Let there be no crushing or pushing. Each will come down
in turn and be rowed to the prahus. Men last of all, as a general rule;
only, as soon as one of the vessels is filled, the crew will be put on
board, so as to be prepared to manoeuvre it should the alarm be given.
Quickly, please, for the morning is dangerously near at hand."

Standing beside the spot where the sampans had been drawn up, he watched
as the Dyak women and children embarked, enjoining strict silence upon
all of them. But they had been well drilled to the movement, and, thanks
to that, they all passed swiftly and without confusion from their
hiding-place in the jungle above to the sampans, and in the latter to
the prahu selected for them. Once a certain number were on board, the
sampans returned for a crew of men, and thus in an incredibly short
space of time all but the half-company watching beside the stockade, and
those who had gone amongst the fleet of prahus, were safely on board
awaiting the order to let go. But there was still something else to do,
and all watched anxiously as they realized that the stockade was to
be entered, and that the figure of a man crawling across the firelit
clearing would be that of their leader.

