"Now for the two captives," said Tyler in matter-of-fact tones, when the
embarkation had been carried out to his satisfaction. "I feel satisfied
now that the larger proportion of the tribe will make good its escape,
for they are on board, and even if the alarm be given now, they are safe
from Hanns Schlott and his friends. Even at this moment I think I see
some of the prahus sinking, and certainly more than one has been cut
from its moorings and is floating away upon the river, and gradually
getting lower. That being the case, the Dutchman and his friends will
have to swim after us if they discover our trick, for we shall leave
nothing. And now for the captives."

For a few moments he stood up in the sampan, while Li Sung went ashore
with some of the Dyaks and hunted carefully through the jungle near at
hand, lest by chance some child should have been overlooked, or one
of the women, tired out by the long journey which she had borne so
well, and by this long night of anxious watching and waiting, should
have fallen asleep and remained behind, forgetful of the fact that her
sisters were embarking.

"That is well," he said in tones of satisfaction, when the Chinaman had
returned with the report that not a soul was to be seen, and that the
jungle was untenanted. "We can now see to the other matter. Li, you will
come with me to the other shore, while the men here who have managed the
embarkation will ferry their boats after us, and will lie off the bank
prepared to come in close and take the remainder of the party off. Tell
them that they are to leave an interval between each sampan, so as to
have plenty of room in case of having to beat a rapid retreat, and that
they are on no account to retire till all their comrades have joined
them. Take the oars now, and let us push over."

He gave the words of command in a calm voice, which betrayed no sign
of excitement or of confusion, but for all that Tyler could scarcely
keep his limbs from trembling, while his lips twitched spasmodically
and he was obliged to press them close together to keep them still; for
the thought of those helpless captives stirred him strangely, the fear
that their fate depended upon himself, and that upon his courage and
discretion their rescue or continued imprisonment would result, kept his
mind ill at ease and filled him with a feeling of nervousness to which
he had up to this been a stranger.

