With another squeeze of the hand he released Tyler, the latter springing
to his feet at once.

"Then all is settled," he said quietly. "If I shout, you come to help;
if not, you remain here or embark at once. My orders are that the safety
of the tribe is not on any account to be risked on my behalf."

A second later, when the sailor would have spoken to his leader, he was
astonished to find that he had gone, and that his place was occupied by
thinnest air. It gave him a start when he considered with what silence
Tyler had gone, but a moment's reflection reminded him of the fact that
his leader was dressed in native costume, and that he wore soft sandals
upon his feet.

"All the better," murmured John Marshall, "for it'll make his chances
brighter. I don't half like this game of his, and never did, though I
see that he's right in making the attempt. But it's risky. It's the
worst part of all this little adventure, and I shall be thankful when I
see him safe amongst us again. Ah! there he goes through the entrance,
and it will be well for him to hurry, for a few minutes ago the stockade
was out of sight, while now one can see it fairly easily, showing that
morning is coming."

That this was the case became evident to all the watchers, for as they
lay there on the bank their figures up to this had been invisible to one
another, while now a keen searcher of the spot would have discovered
them to a certainty had he been within close range of them. Indeed the
night seemed to have gone quite suddenly, while a damp mist, which often
precedes the morn in Borneo, lay over river and land, wrapping them in
semi-obscurity.

"In ten minutes it will go, de sun will suck up de water from de air,
and all will be bright," whispered Li Sung, who had thrown himself down
beside John Marshall. "When massa comes, and we get aboard, de pirate
see us sailing away, and dey get velly angry at de sight. He, he, he! De
Dutchman him rave velly fine, and say many tings, but him not be able to
follow, for he no havee ships."

