The Chinaman again indulged in a half-audible chuckle, which caused the
sailor to stretch out his hand and grip him by the shoulder.

"Silence," he said sternly, "and listen! Laugh and cackle as much as you
wish when the master is with us again, but make a sound now and I'll--"

Exactly what the boatswain would have threatened to do to the faithful
Chinaman it would be difficult to state, though his wrinkled forehead
and the scowl upon his face might have indicated something terrible.
However, a sound within the stockade suddenly arrested the altercation,
and both lay there listening eagerly.

Creak! creak! Was it the door of the hut in which the prisoners were
kept, or could some native have suddenly awakened before the dawn had
come, as was so often their custom, and thrown wide the gate of his
humble abode?

Both longed to clear up the question, but found it impossible, for from
the position which they had taken up they were unable to command a view
of the whole of the clearing within the stockade. Those on the prahus,
however, could have enlightened them, for from the river the dull glare
of the embers of the dying fires, the bamboo stockade, and every hut
within were distinctly within view, while the dusky figure crawling
across to that part where the captives had been taken was plainly
discernible. With straining eyes each one of the Dyak tribe aboard the
prahus watched the young leader whom they had come to look up to and
admire. They saw him creep rapidly, but with every caution, through the
entrance to the stockade and then across the clearing. As they stared at
him through the misty haze, which was gradually and insensibly giving
place to the light of day, they noted how he paused before the hut
occupied by the rascally Dutch leader of the pirates, and each wondered
with beating heart whether any sound had alarmed him.

Creak! creak! Ah! they, too, heard the noise of a wicket thrown open,
and started at the sound. Then they stood there on the sloping decks
listening for a shout, for a pistol-shot, for the roar of a hundred and
more voices to tell them that the young Englishman had been discovered.
But no, not another sound disturbed the silence of the awakening day,
and the dusky figure was seen to be advancing again. Ah, he was at the
hut where the prisoners were kept! Was he entering? Why did he pause
at the door, and for what reason did he so hurriedly dart behind the
dwelling?

