"Then you are English? But I caught sight of a native, and that is what
frightened me. Who are you?"

The question was asked in a whisper, while the young woman leant forward
till she was close to Tyler, for his voice had reassured her.

"It is too long a story to tell you, but I have come to rescue you and
the little girl. Follow me at once, please, and do exactly as I say.
Now, to the door!"

Waiting only to see that they had risen, and that the young woman had
whispered reassuring words to the child, and had cautioned her against
making a sound, Tyler went to the door and gently opened it.

"We shall have day with us in a few moments," he said, turning swiftly
and with an involuntary exclamation of dismay. "Now, listen to me. We
have captured the English ship from the pirates, and have also taken the
prahus. My men are Dyaks, and they will be your friends. You must follow
me at once, keeping well behind the huts. When we get to the opening
through the stockade we will run. Do you understand? Then follow."

Glancing swiftly around, and failing to catch sight of Hanns Schlott,
Tyler led the way into the clearing, and then, stealing along through
the mist, he directed the prisoners amongst the huts so as to keep them
out of sight. Very soon they came to a point where the dwellings ended,
and where nothing but open ground stretched between the fugitives and
the stockade. And here they came to an abrupt halt, while a feeling of
dismay came over them; for there in the opening stood the burly figure
of Hanns Schlott, his face turned to the river, while he stared into the
mist as if something had occurred to awaken his suspicions.

"Strange!" he was murmuring; "is it the wine which I drank last night,
or can it be the thought of that beggarly Englishman, by name Tyler
Richardson, who threatened to follow me and see me hanged as a murderer?
Tush! My eyes are playing me a trick, and I am out of sorts."

He stamped upon the ground in his vexation, and turned from the river
for a moment. But again his eyes went back in that direction as if
he were fascinated, while on this occasion he started forward, and,
sheltering his eyes with his hand, stared into the cloud of watery
vapour with an eagerness which showed that he was still ill at ease.

