"Surely that is strange!" he said in hesitating tones. "Of course the
mist is thickest over the water, but the prahus are outlined in it,
though dimly, I admit. But how comes it that the ship which we captured
is turned with stern this way, and her bows pointing to the sea? It is
beyond my comprehension, for the tide does not make this way for three
hours at least. And--am I really bewildered this morning and muddled by
the wine?--half the fleet seems to have disappeared!"

He rubbed his eyes with his knuckles, and, tearing his hat from his
head, thrust his fingers through his hair. Then once more he fixed his
attention on the river, and stood there as if undecided still, and
as though hesitating how to act. Meanwhile Tyler and his charges had
watched him with feelings approaching dismay.

"We cannot possibly afford to wait more than three or four minutes,"
said the former, "and if he does not move then, we must rush past him.
But I do not like to see him staring so hard at the river, for it seems
to me that he suspects something, and I know that whatever he thinks at
the moment he will soon realize what is happening once the sun clears
the mist away. Get ready, miss, and if you see me start forward at a
walk, be prepared to rush after me and go straight through the opening.
I will see to that fellow."

The seconds seemed to be minutes, so slowly did they pass, and though
Tyler only permitted some three of the latter to elapse before making a
move, almost half an hour seemed to have been occupied in watching the
burly Dutchman. Indeed, now that he had come so close to success in the
undertaking which he had set himself, the fear that, after all, he would
be beaten, that Hanns Schlott would cut off his retreat and retain his
prisoners, filled Tyler's mind with apprehension and anxiety, and those
few minutes seemed almost a lifetime. And all the while the Dutchman
stood as if rooted to the spot, still unable to make up his feeble mind
as to what was happening, and hesitating to awake his followers at this
early hour and bring them rushing forth on a fool's errand, which would
cause them to grumble and laugh at their leader.

