Suddenly, as he turned to the collection of huts behind him, his eye
fell upon the figure of a swarthy Dyak, with sandalled feet, who was
advancing towards him, and taking him for one of his own men he called
eagerly to him.

"Come here and tell me what you see," he said in commanding tones. "My
sight is not very certain in these early morning mists, and often plays
me false. Say, are the prahus still at their moorings, and why is it
that the vessel which we captured has her head turned to the sea?"

He was in the act of turning once more to the river, to direct the
gaze of the native who had advanced towards him, when another doubt,
something unusual about the man, seemed to strike him, and he swung
round, to face Tyler with a start of surprise.

"Sandals!" he gasped. "Sopping waist-cloth, and--and colour which runs
in streaks down the body and leaves white beneath!"

Like a flash he recognized who this native must be, and stood there
staring at him as though the discovery stifled him, as though the
boldness of the Englishman took his breath away. Then, quick as
lightning, a thought, a horrible dread, came over him.

"Had the Englishman come to the stockade with others of his country? Was
that the reason of the disappearance of some of the prahus? And had this
man, this youth whom he had openly called a cub, but whom in his heart
he feared not a little, and whose persistence had amazed him, had this
Tyler Richardson tracked him to this spot, and by some uncanny means
induced him, the leader of this gang of pirates, to emerge from his hut
at that early hour in the morning and walk alone, like a helpless fly,
into the web which had been woven to catch him?"

The thought sent the blood surging to his face, only to recede in an
instant and leave him deadly pale. He gasped, threw back his head to
take in a much-needed breath, and would have set the air ringing with a
shriek of dismay had not Tyler suddenly stopped him. Instantly realizing
that he had been recognized, and that his disguise was discovered, he
threw himself upon the Dutchman like a hound, and, mindful of the advice
which John Marshall had given him just before they had parted, dealt
Hanns Schlott a terrific blow between the eyes.

