"For you!" he shouted, throwing silence and caution to the winds in his
excitement as he delivered the blow. "That to show you that a Dutchman
cannot stop an Englishman!"

Had he been struck by a hammer Hanns Schlott could not have been more
staggered, or thrown off his balance. Indeed, the suddenness and the
unexpected nature of the attack, and the force with which the fist
crashed upon his face, had combined to send him to the ground, and but
for the fact that the edge of the stockade happened to be close at hand
he would have gone upon his back in the clearing, just as he had on a
former occasion fallen crash to the floor of the schooner's cabin before
the fist of John Marshall. Instead, however, his bulky figure was driven
heavily against the bamboos, and, recoiling from them with the force of
the impact, he was thrown once more in the direction of his opponent.
Nor did Tyler hesitate how to act. Drawing back a pace he leapt again at
the leader of the pirates, sending both his fists beneath his chin. Ah!
That was sufficient to stop Hanns Schlott, in spite of his great weight.
As the doubled fingers struck him his chin shot into the air and his
head was doubled back. Then, throwing his arms helplessly before him, he
fell like a log, his back coming into violent contact with the ground.

"Quickly!" called Tyler, turning to beckon to the two who followed him.
"Now give me a hand and together we will run to the boats."

Grasping the child by her disengaged hand he, together with the young
woman whom he had rescued, ran at their fastest pace down to the river,
bearing their charge between them. A second later John Marshall and his
men confronted the fugitives and hastened them to the boats.

"Jest a proper whop!" cried the former in tones of delight, his
enthusiasm urging him to give his congratulations without delay. "I tell
yer I saw it all, for I had taken good care to creep to a spot where I
had the entrance under view, and I reckon I could hear the fist strike
him. But he's only downed for a minute. He's silly just now, but he'll
be shouting afore we are well on the river, and then there will be some
fun. This way, my dear. Give the child to me, and you'll see that John
Marshall can take care of her."

