Lifting the child in his arms he went to one of the sampans and
embarked, the young woman following. As for Tyler, he too ran down to
the water's edge, and stood there while his men scrambled aboard their
boats.

"All there?" he demanded quietly. "Then push off at once and make for
the English ship. Li Sung, you can shout to the others to cut away from
their moorings and make for the sea."

Leaping into one of the sampans he took his place in the bows and stood
there eagerly watching the scene before him. Nor had he any difficulty
in observing each one of the prahus which the tribe commanded, for,
as is so often the case in the East, the sun had risen with startling
suddenness, and, streaming along the open space left by the river,
had swept the mist away as if with a broom. And there, as if with the
movement of a magician's wand, a brilliant day had suddenly displaced
the gloom, showing the broad surface of the Sarebus flashing in the
morning rays, and stirred here and there by the keels of the prahus,
while on either side and behind was a net-work of green, enormous trees
standing in serried lines and huddled together till it scarcely seemed
to need the trailing creepers, the ferns, and the festoons of dazzling
blooms to fill up the intervals. And lower down, with the rising sun as
a setting to them, were a score of piratical vessels, some with masts
alone to be seen, while others floated upon the river in ungainly
positions, careening this way and that, some with bows thrust high into
the air, and others with their decks on the point of being submerged.

"The remainder of Hanns Schlott's fleet," said Tyler with just the trace
of a smile wreathing his lips. "He will be at a loss without them. But
listen to the noise he is making. He is bellowing as if he had been
hurt."

"And he will shout so loud and will rush by the paths along the river so
that de men below hear," chimed in Li Sung, who stood by his master's
side. "You see; China boy him tellee you dat de Dutchman havee a velly
big try to turn de table. He shout and him halloo, and as me say, he
send de men along de river bank. But who cares? Li him quite happy. He
hab big ship velly soon, and him sail to meet him wife and family."

