He turned his face down the river, and watched the other prahus which
bore the tribe of Dyaks who had journeyed with him so far.

"Good!" he exclaimed. "My followers evidently understand all about
vessels of that description, and they have them now fairly under weigh.
Then the stream is helping them along, and as they are smaller and more
easily manoeuvred than this schooner, they should be able to keep well
ahead. But we will see to that, and should any be lagging we will keep
them company, for it would never do to leave them behind. How are they
behaving at the pirate's stronghold?"

"Dey velly angry," said Li Sung with twinkling eyes, shaking his head
at Tyler. "Dey not know velly fine what have happened, but dey see de
prahus going, and dey watch dose which have not sunk. Ah! dis morning am
a velly bad one for dem."

"But there will be a worse to follow, Li. I hope to come this way again
later on, and drive them out altogether. But for the time being we have
enough to do without talking of that. I see that a number of the pirates
have plunged into the jungle, and are no doubt bound for their friends
lower down. When can we expect to come across another stockade?"

"Plenty quick, massa. De pirates havee anoder place a mile below, on de
right of de bank, and before velly long we be dere. Dey be ready for us
too, me tink, and den de guns fire and de swords flash."

"We shall see to that," said Tyler calmly, "and as there seems to be no
doubt that we shall have to encounter these fellows I will see what can
be done in the way of defence. But let us get our men aboard, and then
set more sails."

Turning abruptly to the stern again, he ran there with the Chinaman and
threw a rope-ladder overboard, up which the dusky Dyaks ascended with
the agility of monkeys. Then he took them along the deck with him and
set them to work at the rigging. Fortunately there was little difficulty
about the matter, and very soon the schooner was showing quite a large
amount of canvas, which, now that it was drenched with water, as John
Marshall had advised, caught the wind and sent the ship surging towards
the sea. And meanwhile the other prahus had made good way, and, keeping
to the centre of the river, which broadened rapidly now that they had
passed out of sight of Paddi, went sweeping along in front of the
English vessel which bore their leader. That the Dyaks were full of
excitement and of courage there was no doubt, for they crowded to the
bulwarks of their several prahus and flung shouts of defiance at the
pirates who raced along beside them. Indeed, never before had they been
in the position of being able to taunt these fierce enemies, and now
that the opportunity had come, and they realized to the full that for
the very first time it was they who were masters of the situation, while
those who had so often attacked them and caused them untold suffering
were helpless and beaten, they taunted them till the pirates raged with
anger, and waved swords, blow-pipes, and spears at them as if bidding
them wait but a little time and then join in combat with those who in
former days had trembled at the approach of one even of these fierce
warriors of the sea.

