As for the pirates, they were utterly beaten and baffled, and helpless
to follow those who had made such an audacious attack upon them, by
means of the river, for not a sampan had been left to them, while every
prahu that they had possessed was now sailing for the sea or was beneath
the water. They raced down the stream by forest paths, sometimes being
within full view of Tyler and his men, and at others buried in the
jungle which completely hid them from sight. But their intention was
obvious, for as they ran they fired their flint muskets and shouted at
the top of their voices, with the one object of warning their comrades
below.

"The shots will have been heard long ago," said Tyler quietly, as he
gazed with satisfaction at the rigging, "and when we come to this other
stronghold we shall have to face more enemies. Let us see at once to the
guns."

With Li Sung in close attendance he went to the cabin, and then
thoroughly searched the ship, returning before very long with an
abundance of ammunition and small-arms, while the Chinaman staggered
beneath the weight of shot for a swivel-gun which was secured to the
deck amidships.

"Can the Dyaks be trusted to fire these weapons?" asked Tyler,
indicating the flint-locks. "It would never do to give them into their
hands if they were unaccustomed to firearms, for otherwise they would be
shooting one another."

"Massa need havee no fear. De Dyaks plenty knowee de gun, but dey too
poor to buy, and de powder and de shot too dear for dem to havee when
at home," replied Li Sung with elevated eyebrows. "But dey knowee allee
about dese tings. Oh yes, massa, dey fire de gun plenty time before, and
you see, Li soon showee dem allee about dese."

With a knowing wag of his head the Chinaman called the Dyaks about him
and began to distribute the firearms amongst them, cautioning them at
the same time to be careful in their use of them, for fear of accidents.

"And let them know that they are not to open fire until I have given the
word," interposed Tyler in the middle of Li's explanations. "A scattered
volley will be useless to us, and I have been told that natives always
waste ammunition by firing when still long out of range of the enemy. We
must endeavour to cool their excitement, and to make them wait till the
prahus are close upon us. But what is that down lower? Surely I see a
stockade of some sort there?"

