"Dat de oder place," responded Li Sung quickly, shading his eyes from
the glare of the sun for the space of a minute ere he gave the reply.
"Dat Pakoo, massa, and dere am de pirates. Li see dem wid de boom, and
dey trying to close de river."

At once all eyes were turned down the stream, where, some hundreds of
yards away, a number of prahus and sampans of large size could be seen
floating on the water. A careful inspection soon showed Tyler that the
Chinaman had made no mistake, for as he looked he distinctly saw four of
the largest sampans linked together in line, while their crews tugged at
the sweeps which the craft carried instead of the oars used on smaller
boats of a similar description. Behind the boats a long curling cable of
large dimensions was being towed, and very soon it became clear to all
aboard the escaping prahus that this was a boom which the pirates were
endeavouring to make fast to the opposite shore and so bar the progress
of the fugitives.

"We will soon make an end of that for them," said Tyler quietly, "for I
should think that the boom would hardly hold a couple of the prahus, and
much less the fleet which we have captured. But this schooner will rip
through the chains and logs as if the boom were composed of string, and
will open the passage to our comrades. Keep her for the very centre," he
shouted, turning his head towards the boatswain, "and see if you cannot
overtake our friends."

Coming down-stream with a brisk breeze and a swift current to aid them,
Tyler and his friends approached the boom, which had by now been firmly
secured, at a rapid pace, and very soon two of the prahus, which were
somewhat in advance of their consorts, reached the obstruction, and were
brought to a stand-still, for the boom was unusually powerful. A third
struck against it with the same result, and it began to look as though,
after all, escape for the tribe and their young leader would not be so
easy. Indeed, to the pirates, who had streamed from their stronghold at
the warning shouts of their comrades of Paddi, victory already appeared
to be on their side, and they rent the air with hoarse shouts of
delight. Crowded upon their prahus, which they had manned in all haste,
they pulled into the river to the lower side of the boom, and there hung
on their oars while they watched the enemy coming down upon the stream.
As a fourth and a fifth vessel lodged upon the boom their excitement
and delight became even greater, and, unable to contain themselves any
longer, and being led by the largest of their prahus, they pulled at the
boom, and prepared to come to close quarters with the men who had dared
to make such an attack upon their friends. Leaping into sampans, which
each of the prahus towed in her wake, some rowed at once for the boom,
and gliding over it, or lifting their boat across the logs and chains,
embarked again and came towards their victims at a furious pace. Others,
discarding the aid of a boat, leapt into the water and swam to the boom,
upon which they climbed. Then, balancing upon it with as much ease as
an average European does on a wide pavement, they came splashing along,
brandishing their weapons and shouting fiercely to terrify those whom
they were about to attack.

