"For the centre!" shouted Tyler, turning again to John Marshall. "Cut
through the boom, and then throw her up into the wind till we see that
all our friends are through. If we fail to break it, I will lead a party
with axes."

Knowing that he could have full confidence in the boatswain, he left him
to carry out the order unaided, and at once ran in search of something
with which to cut the boom should the weight of the schooner prove
insufficient. But there was really no need for him to have fears on
the matter, for, thanks to the powerful stream and to the pull of her
canvas, the English vessel which he and his men had appropriated rushed
at the obstruction at such a pace that it was clear that nothing could
stop her. Steered by the deft hand of the sailor, she headed for the
very centre, the weakest spot, and, striking it with all her force,
severed it as if it had been paper. Then, plunging on in her course,
she bore down upon the large prahu which had led the attack upon those
who had been arrested by the boom, and ere the latter could be moved
aside by means of her sweeps the schooner was upon her. Ah! The crash
of rending wood-work filled the air, while shrieks and shouts of alarm
were heard on every side. But the schooner never faltered, indeed her
frame never even seemed to feel the jar, but, plunging on, she rolled
the prahu upon her beam-ends, and then drove clean over her, sending her
straight to the bottom. As for those of her crew who had leapt upon the
boom, or had taken to the sampans, they were left upon the surface of
the river gazing at the retreating fleet in consternation, as yet unable
to realize that those who a minute before seemed at their mercy had so
suddenly made good their escape, and had robbed them of one of their
finest prahus. With fear in their hearts they turned to their stockade
again, and disappeared within, feeling that to attempt pursuit of such
an enemy would end only in further suffering.

"And now for Sarawak!" shouted Tyler, as the fleet of prahus sailed
clear of the boom, and headed for the sea once more. "Our troubles are
almost over, and within a day we should be safely amongst friends.
Hurrah for Sarawak!"

