


CHAPTER XIII

The Rajah of Sarawak


Standing down-stream under a cloud of canvas the fleet of prahus, with
the English schooner escorting, made an imposing sight, and Tyler could
not but feel proud as he looked on at the scene; for it was wonderful to
think that he and the humble Dyaks should have met with such success,
and that the termination of their journey should have found them better
off by far than they were at the commencement.

"Why, these prahus alone will be enough to set the tribe up once we
have arrived," mused Tyler, "and no doubt we shall be able to sell them
with ease. Then, again, the fact that the Sarebus pirates have met with
a reverse at our hands will ensure a welcome for the Dyaks. But I must
not run too far ahead, for we are not yet out of the river. Tell me,"
he went on, calling the Chinaman to him, "are there any others to be
feared? This river seems to be infested with pirates, and it will not
surprise me to hear that there are others."

"Den you will see dat dat is so, massa. De Rembas men live some miles
below, and dey velly fierce, velly bad. But dey not always friends wid
de men of Paddi and de oders whom we havee beaten. Perhaps dey not
interfere, and if dey do, well, massa, sail de schooner down upon dem
and dey sink, dey goee to de bottom."

The news that more enemies might yet have to be encountered scarcely
caused our hero any uneasiness, for he had come to understand that
the prahus manned by the pirates were no match for an English ship,
unless, indeed, the latter were becalmed, or in some way unable to offer
resistance. But for all that he did not allow the subject to escape him,
and having, by dint of shouts and signals, induced his followers to draw
close together, and lay-to for a time, he sent a message to each one of
the prahus that they were to keep behind the schooner, and that on no
account were the men to show their arms, or to wave to the enemy. Then,
turning the schooner's bows once more towards the sea, he led the way a
ship's length ahead of the fleet, and ere long arrived off the tributary
upon which the Rembas pirates had their lair. But there was no sign of
the latter, and, indeed, not a boat crossed the water till the coast was
at hand and they were making through the wide mouth of the river.

