"A fleet making in," said John Marshall in Tyler's ear, suddenly
pointing to one edge of the wide bay into which the Sarebus poured.
"They will pass close to us as we run into the sea, and from the looks
of them they are pirates."

"And we have much the same appearance," said Tyler calmly. "We will keep
on without an attempt to alter our course, and perhaps they will take us
for their friends. One moment and I will get rid of this colour from my
face, and will hunt out a coat. Then I can take the helm and pretend to
be the Dutchman."

Running below he quickly unearthed a coat from one of the cabins, and,
having obtained a bucket and a piece of soap, immersed his face in
water. Five minutes later he returned to the deck with a less dusky
complexion, and with the coat about his shoulders.

"Now for the helm," he said, noticing that the fleet was now close at
hand, and that the pirates would pass within hailing distance. "It seems
to me that they will not even question us, for they will know that the
men of Paddi have recently captured an English schooner, and will think
nothing of the fact that the latter is leading the prahus to sea. But
I do hope that our fellows will not allow their excitement to get the
better of them, and shout and jeer at these strangers."

By now the gathering of prahus, which had been sighted entering the
mouth of the river Sarebus, was close at hand, steering a course which
would take it close beside the fleet under Tyler's command. But it was
evident that the leader, whatever his feelings with regard to the men of
Paddi, had no suspicions of the new-comers, for he had posted himself
in the bows of his own particular command, and as he swept past the
schooner he leapt upon the rail and shouted a greeting, to which Tyler
responded by waving his arm. Then all the dusky pirates from Rembas, a
gang as celebrated in those seas for their bloodthirstiness and acts of
violence as were the men of Paddi, lined the bulwarks and sent their
cheers across the narrow space which intervened as the two fleets sailed
by one another. Quick to grasp the fact that they were undiscovered, the
Dyaks replied with loud cries and much waving of the arms, and then, ere
there was time for any more, or for the exchange of words, the prahus
had separated and were swiftly running away from one another.

