"And now there is nothing but the open sea and a grand passage between
us and friends," exclaimed Tyler, with every sign of satisfaction, "and,
that being the case, I am reminded that we have eaten nothing for many
hours. Li Sung, just get below and see what is to be found. We will
divide the provisions, and send their share to the men and women on the
other prahus. And now I can devote a little time to the captives whom we
rescued."

Six hours later, having coasted along within easy distance of the line
of surf which beat without cessation upon the land of Borneo, the fleet
bore up to the left, and entered the river which led to the town of
Sarawak, and ere very long had sighted the collection of buildings which
went by that name.

"And there's two ships of some sort," cried John Marshall as he stood by
his leader's side, suddenly pointing to a creek close beside the houses.
"They're English too, and what's more, they're sending their boats
away. It looks as though they were coming in this direction."

[Illustration: ELUDING THE PIRATES]

"That is certainly the case," replied Tyler, at once catching sight of
the vessels to which the sailor had alluded, and noticing that each had
lowered three boats, which were being rowed towards the incoming fleet.
"I suppose that they are coming to give us a welcome, or perhaps to see
who we are."

"What do we look like, do yer think, sir?" cried the boatswain gruffly.
"Why, back there at the mouth of the Sarebus river you said that we were
jest like pirates, and if that hadn't been the case, them men of Rembas
would soon have been at our throats. Well, don't yer see? These fellers
here, under the Englishman I suppose, take us for what we look to be,
and if we're not partic'lar careful they'll be firing into us."

That this was a possibility all very quickly saw, for as the fleet of
prahus and the six open boats approached one another the latter were
seen to be manned by men in naval dress, while in the bows of each a
swivel-gun was carried. Indeed, as if to show the strangers that their
arrival at Sarawak would be contested, a spout of flame and smoke shot
out from one of the guns at that moment, and a ball came hurtling across
the forefoot of the schooner. A second followed swiftly, ricochetting
across the water, and then hulling the vessel, striking with a thud
which could be heard far away.

