"And now come the bullets," said Tyler with a smile, as the patter
of musketry broke the silence, and the water was splashed beside the
schooner. "But the mistake has gone far enough, and we must let them see
their error. Stand aside, John, and just tell Li Sung to warn the others
to get under cover. I will go forward and shout to them."

Running into the bows, he sprang upon the rail there, and with one hand
holding the rigging so as to retain his position, waved a piece of
sail-cloth to the men who were approaching.

"Friends!" he shouted at the top of his voice. "Don't fire any more,
or you will be killing those who are coming here to ask for your
protection."

His words carried easily across the water, and almost at once an officer
was seen to rise to his feet.

"Cease fire!" they heard him shout. "Now, surround that schooner, as she
seems to be the leader, and train your guns upon her. You can lie off
so as to be out of range of their spears, but do not be so far away as
to make a rush impossible. I will go closer in, and see who it is that
called to us."

Careless of the fact that he might have been running into a trap, the
officer gave an order for the boat to be pulled closer in, and then
stood in the bows awaiting the moment when he would be able to go aboard
the stranger. As for Tyler, with a shout to attract John Marshall's
attention, and a wave of his arm, he had caused the latter to throw the
schooner into the wind, a movement which was at once imitated by those
in command of the other vessels. Then in his quaint costume, consisting
of an old coat which had been made for a man of a smaller size than
himself, and with the remains of his old disguise about him, he stood at
the top of a rope-ladder which was lowered over the side.

"Eh! what's this?" demanded the officer as he scrambled over the rail.
"And who are you who sail into the river at the head of a fleet which we
could not help but take for pirates? Why, you're a youngster, surely,
and an Englishman!"

