"Tyler Richardson by name," responded our hero, stepping forward with
his hand held to his forehead in salute. "Gazetted to the _Dido_, sir,
and pursued by pirates on my way to join my ship."

"And you understand how to salute an officer of superior rank," cried
the one who had boarded the schooner, in astonished tones. "Tyler
Richardson! Why, that is the name of the young fellow who was to come to
us, the lad who rescued two naval officers from the hold of a ship which
lay in Southampton."

"I am the one of whom you speak," said Tyler modestly. "As I have said,
I came out to Singapore, and hearing that the _Dido_ had left the China
seas, I obtained permission to accompany a gentleman who was coming
to Borneo to explore certain parts of the island. A Dutchman, who had
shipped with us as interpreter, and who turned out to be one of two
leaders of the pirates of Sarebus, murdered my friend, and then helped
his followers to capture our ship. Our boatswain, John Marshall, who
stands beside you, actually saw the ruffian fire the shot which killed
Mr. Beverley. Then he came to my aid, and together we were able to
regain possession of the schooner by means of a trick."

"And this is the same vessel, I presume?" interrupted the officer, whose
face showed his amazement.

"No, sir, this is another," replied Tyler quietly. "This fellow of whom
I speak, the Dutchman--"

"I beg your pardon, but what is his name, and where did he and his
scoundrels hail from?" suddenly asked the officer, interrupting for the
second time.

"He commanded the men of Sarebus, and was helped by a countryman of the
name of Christian van Sonerell."

"Then we know of them, and a precious couple they are too! But we shall
catch them some day, and then they will have much to answer for. But
please go on with your tale, Mr. Richardson, and let me say at once,
before we go any further, that I give you a hearty welcome to Sarawak
and the _Dido_. Shake hands."

He grasped Tyler warmly by the fingers, and then turned to greet John
Marshall in the same manner.

