"Very glad to welcome you," he added. "You will be an addition to our
company, and will find many friends. Now for these Dutchmen, please, and
for news of their whereabouts."

"The murderer, Hans Schlott, is within his stronghold at Paddi, where we
left him this morning," said Tyler, "and the other--"

"Paddi! You left him there! But, excuse me, I will not interrupt again."


The officer managed to repress his astonishment, and stood there staring
at our hero as he detailed what had happened to himself and to John
Marshall.

"And so you and the boatswain managed to get clear away from this
rascal, and have arrived here with a whole tribe of Dyaks," he said at
last, when Tyler had ended. "Well, I can scarcely credit the story at
present, though please do not imagine for a moment that I doubt your
word. But you must understand that the whole thing is so out of the
common, the adventure so strange and perplexing, that I am unable to
grasp its details at present. How you and this lad here managed to beat
the Dutchman so often is beyond me, and your audacity in making for
Paddi takes my breath away. Why, sir, I can tell you that the Rajah of
Sarawak hesitates to attack the stronghold for fear of being beaten
back, and also because he needs a guide. But we shall alter that now,
or I am much mistaken; for if we went for no other purpose we should be
bound to hunt out this rascal who murdered your friend Mr. Beverley. But
we have been speaking for long, and my men will be firing into you if
we are not careful, imagining that you have laid your hands on me. One
moment and I will explain matters to them."

Leaving Tyler and the boatswain for a few moments, he went to the rail
and called to those who manned the boats to come closer to the schooner.
Then in a few hurried words he explained that those who had so suddenly
appeared opposite Sarawak were friends, and were not pirates, as had at
first appeared to be the case.

"And now, Mr. Richardson, I think that you should report your arrival
first to Captain Keppel and then to the Rajah of Sarawak, Mr. Brooke, of
whom you have heard," he continued, approaching Tyler with a friendly
smile. "If you will leave the tribe to me I will see that they are
housed and fed, while my men will board the prahus and take them to
their moorings. As for your comrade, he had better go with you, and
afterwards perhaps some post will be found for him, for we must
remember that he does not belong to the royal navy, but to the merchant
service."

