"Then we had better look out some clothes, sir," said Tyler contrasting
his own appearance with that of the smart officer who had accosted him.
"Will you allow us to go below before we report ourselves? Then we shall
be able to make ourselves respectable."

"By all means, Mr. Richardson," was the hearty answer, "and while you
are below I will undertake to have the little girl and her nurse taken
ashore. It was a gallant act to rescue them, and you will have the
thanks of your captain for it. But there, I see that you do not like to
have overmuch praise, so go below. I shall be here when you return, so
as to give you an introduction."

Saluting him again, Tyler turned about, and, accompanied by John
Marshall, slipped down to the cabin of the schooner. And here, thanks
to the fact that the pirates had put off stripping their prize till the
morning after their arrival at Paddi, the two were able to discover an
abundance of clothing, and soon made their appearance on deck dressed in
thin suits of blue.

"An excellent change," said the officer with a smile, as they went up to
him. "It was no wonder that I took you for dangerous individuals when
you arrived, for your disguises made you look more than fierce. But now
you are like the rest of us, and are fully prepared for an interview
with those who lead us. You can hop into the boat at once and come with
me, and by the way, Mr. Richardson, my name is Horton, Lieutenant Wilmot
Horton of the _Dido."_

Responding promptly to the invitation to enter the boat which awaited
them, Tyler and the companion who had stood beside him through their
long and adventurous journey clambered down the rope-ladder which
dangled over the side, and having been instantly followed by the
lieutenant, were soon on their way to the largest of the two vessels
moored off the town of Sarawak.

"Follow me," said the officer, taking Tyler by the sleeve as they
reached the deck. "You can go forward till we send for you, my lad," he
added, turning to John Marshall. "Now, Mr. Richardson, our captain is on
the poop, and we will go to him. Please remember to touch your hat as
you mount the companion ladder, and again as you stand before him."

