Hearty indeed was the welcome which was given to our hero when it was
known who he was. From the commander of the _Dido_ downwards all vied
with one another in showing him how glad they were to see him.

"Of course I know that you are somewhat over the ordinary age," said
Captain Keppel, as he chatted with him in his cabin; "but then you have
won a commission by bravery, and that is sufficient to recommend you and
to make the Lords of the Admiralty overlook your years. Not that you are
so very old, my lad," he added with a smile. "Then you have come to us
with a tale which will procure much commendation, for you have actually
been in the lair which these pirates inhabit, and will be able to guide
us there and tell us of their doings.

"But I must not keep you longer, for it is necessary that you should go
to Mr. Brooke, who is now the Rajah of the province of Sarawak, and tell
him what has occurred. You will oblige me by taking this young officer
ashore, Mr. Horton, and introducing him to the rajah. Send the man who
accompanied him to me, so that I may listen to the story and hear every
detail."

Both at once turned about, touching their caps as they did so, and
repeating the action as they descended from the poop. Then they
re-entered the boat which lay alongside, and were pulled to the
landing-stage which had been erected close to the rajah's residence.

"Not at home just now," said the lieutenant, after he had made enquiries
of a Dyak lad who stood at the door. "Then we will wait, and as the
rajah keeps open house, and gives the officers an invitation to enter
whether he is here or not, we will go in and shelter from the heat.
Follow me, and I will show you where you can be comfortable. By the
way, my lad, I suppose you know all about Mr. Brooke and his doings?"

"Very little, I am afraid," answered Tyler. "Of course Mr. Beverley told
me that he was here, and that he had come to better the condition of the
natives. But I did not know more than that, and do not now."

