"Then I will spin you a yarn about this man, who is a wonder in many
respects, and who has gained the esteem and affection of every one of
us, from our commander downwards. Let me see; yes, I will commence
by telling you that one time he belonged to our sister service, the
army, and saw a considerable amount of fighting in India and Burmah,
distinguishing himself in the latter country, where he led the assault
upon a stockade, and was shot through the chest. That wound sent him
home, and it is by the merest good luck, and thanks also to the fact
that he had an excellent constitution, that our friend lived to come
to Sarawak; for he was badly hurt, and hovered between life and death
for many a month. However, recover he did at last, when he set about
finding a task which would occupy all his thoughts and all his energy,
and which would at the same time help to lighten the condition of those
of his fellow-beings who were worse off than himself. And that brings
me to a point which I have not mentioned. This wounded soldier was a
thinker, and is, too, at this moment. He did not waste his time in
frivolity, in games and pastimes, as do so many in both services. But
he devoted much of his life to work, and to investigating the condition
of men in various parts of the world. Thanks to that fact, and also to
the opportunity which a trading venture had given him, he became aware
of the misery existing in this island of Borneo, and from that moment
he was bent upon relieving the condition of the people. Now you will
admit that there are few who would have set about such a matter, for
when you come to consider the facts you will see that Borneo is, in
the first place, an island of large extent, while this portion, called
Borneo Proper, is perhaps as large as England herself. Then, again, the
rajah knew well that pirates abounded, and that if he escaped attack
from them he was likely at any moment to have the Dyaks seeking for his
life, for some of the tribes are very ferocious. Still, whatever their
nature, there was no doubt that life was but a misery to the majority of
the people, that they were constantly robbed, killed, or hurried into
slavery by the pirates, and that that condition of affairs had existed
for untold years. To all of this Mr. Brooke determined to put a stop.

