"You will ask very naturally: 'How did he set about the matter?' and
I will at once admit that, to anyone faced with the same question and
the same difficulty, an answer would be hard to find. How could one
man, without the aid of his Government, without soldiers or sailors
to help him, hope to set foot in the island, and control the deeds
of thousands of human beings, men who knew nothing of his aims and
objects, and cared less? Why, even those for whose relief he aimed were
too absorbed in their misery, too used to their lives, to think that
change was possible, and when he first came, some of them were amongst
his bitterest enemies, for they could not understand that one man, and
he a foreigner, could take such interest in a race of natives who were
strangers to him.

"Thus you will see from what I have said that from the very first the
prospect of success was not too bright, while the method by which reform
could be brought about was so obscure and difficult to arrive at that a
man endowed with similar courage and persistence might well have given
the task up in despair, feeling that to make a commencement on the work
was well-nigh impossible. Not so our friend the Rajah of Sarawak. His
heart was set upon the undertaking, and he allowed nothing to stand in
his way. When I tell you that he had absolutely nothing to gain, that
his mission was not one for the purpose of profit-making, and that he
ran the risk of losing anything that he already possessed, I think that
you too will be filled with admiration.

"As an example of his dogged perseverance, he did not rush at this
enterprise with the impetuosity of a young man, only to give up the idea
at the first rebuff, or when real difficulties commenced to stare him in
the face. But he set himself, first of all, to train a crew of men upon
whom he could rely, and for that purpose he bought, out of his private
fortune, a schooner, the _Royalist_, which lies alongside the _Dido_ at
this moment. For three years he cruised in her, for the most part in the
Mediterranean, and during the whole of that time he was busily engaged
in hunting up records of the island of Borneo and the surroundings. At
length, feeling that his preparations were completed, he sailed from
Devonport on December 16th, 1838, having a crew of twenty men, and a
supply of arms aboard, including six six-pounder guns. On arrival at
Singapore he shipped a few Malay hands to help with the wooding and
watering of the ship, and then shaped a course for Sarawak.

