"Now Marudu, which is in the north of the island, had been the part
for which he had intended to sail when leaving England, thinking that
that port would be the best at which to commence his labours. But news
gathered in Singapore caused him to change his mind, and therefore he
came to Sarawak, anchoring at the very spot where the two vessels are
now moored. Imagine his pleasure when, on landing, he found himself
received with every honour by Rajah Muda Hassim, uncle of the Sultan of
Borneo. It was indeed a pleasant surprise, for our friend had expected
anything but a welcome; and had he carried out his first idea, and
sailed for Marudu, there is little doubt that a very different reception
would have awaited him, for that district was ruled over by a notorious
chief who favoured piracy, and in consequence the bay was the rendezvous
for all the robbers and ruffians in and about the island.

"This Muda Hassim, however, was a very different class of individual,
for he had some education, and, in place of being fierce and
unscrupulous, he was gentle in manner, while, for a Malay, he was
possessed of honest intentions.

"And now to tell you how Mr. Brooke commenced this work of his, to
describe how the first seeds were sown, the thin end of the wedge
introduced, and the old miserable order, with its cruelties and
oppression, slowly banished. Do not think that change was brought about
from the very first, and that, because a pleasant welcome had greeted
him, his influence was to have weight with the natives simply on account
of the fact that he was an Englishman, and because men of that race
were thought much of in that part of Borneo. The rajah would have done
nothing, would have met with failure, had it not been for the fact that
this native, Muda Hassim, was in difficulties and in need of help, and
that by coming to his aid our friend first of all made him his debtor
for life, while at the same time he showed the natives what a man he
was; that his word was reliable, and that he could fight as well as he
could talk. Yes, that was the secret of his success. From the very first
he had enemies, and there is no doubt that his life was often in danger;
but the rajah never thought of his position seriously, but boldly went
amongst the natives. Then, too, he showed an ever-ready disposition to
protect those who lived beneath the sway of this Muda Hassim, and on
one occasion, when a fleet of pirates arrived in the river, with the
intention of sailing farther up and raiding the Dyaks in the interior,
this commander of the _Royalist_ manned his guns and let the marauders
see that they would have to fight an action before they could pass. For
that he gained the gratitude of many who had never set eyes upon him,
but who at that time knew him vaguely as the Englishman.

