"Very soon, however, his name and his appearance were known everywhere,
for Muda Hassim was, as I have already said, in great difficulties.
It seems that a rebellion had broken out in the district of Sarawak,
owing to the oppression of a chief of the name of Makota, and that
for many months matters had been at a stand-still. The rebels were
entrenched in stockades, and an army under this Makota was opposed to
them. But there was no fighting, and instead the combatants watched one
another listlessly, the besiegers unable to attack, simply because they
possessed no leader who had the courage to direct them, and the rebels
because they were too few. Instead, therefore, the first lounged the
days away, while the Dyaks and Malays who were in rebellion sought for
food, of which they were in great need. And all the while the country
was at a stand-still, there was no trade, while the wretched people were
rapidly becoming destitute.

"It was at this juncture that Mr. Brooke came to the rescue. Having
looked into the matter thoroughly, and run back to Singapore for a time,
he was at length induced to proceed to the part where the rebels were
entrenched; for Muda Hassim had besought his aid. In fact, for three
years the latter had been helpless; and all the while he and the Sultan
of Borneo were afraid lest, finding that terms were not to be obtained
from their own people, the rebels should apply to the men of Sambas,
pirates for the most part, to take up their cause. If that were to
happen, and the latter be successful, then Sarawak and the neighbourhood
would come under the sway of the Dutch, for Sambas was controlled by
that nation. Thus, Muda Hassim and the sultan had much to lose, and
longer delay might prove disastrous.

"But our friend was not the man to enter upon a conflict of this nature
for the purpose of gain, and it was only when he became convinced of the
misery which existed on account of the rebellion, and of the starving
condition of the people, that he finally consented to accompany Muda
Hassim to the army and see what could be done.

