"I will not tell you any of the details, Richardson, for they are of
little interest, but will simply say that the energy of this Englishman
soon brought an end to the little war. A rush on the part of his men,
with himself at their head, soon changed the ideas of the rebels--so
much so that Mr. Brooke was able to make terms with them and induce
them to surrender. Finally, with the help of his crew he prevented all
attempts at massacre, which would have taken place had it not been
for his watchfulness, and, having obtained hostages, sent the rebels
to their homes. There, that is the first step in the present rajah's
popularity. He showed these natives that he was bold and strong, while
at the same time he gained their confidence, for he would not permit a
beaten foe to be ill-treated, and once the war was over he set about
increasing the prosperity of the natives, instead of robbing them and
making them even more miserable than before, as would have been the
case had anyone else been in his place. Indeed, he had many a wordy
fight with this man Macota, and with Muda Hassim too, before he gained
security for the defeated rebels, and many a time afterwards, had it not
been for his energy and his powerful influence, robbery and violence
would have been practised upon the humble Dyaks of the interior. And so,
little by little did his fame reach the ears of far-distant people, till
the name of Brooke, the great and powerful Englishman, the defender of
the weak and poor, the friend of all Dyaks and the enemy of all rogues
and pirates, become one to conjure with. Indeed, if not rajah in fact,
he was as good as leader of this province, and when at last the sultan
conferred the title upon him, and handed over the government of Sarawak
to our friend and his heirs for ever, the people received him with
gladness, and save for a few, such as Macota, and others who had fallen
foul of him, accepted him as their chief with every sign of satisfaction.

"From that moment Rajah Brooke has been busily engaged in touring
through his district, in issuing laws for the guidance of the people,
and in suppressing all attempts at slavery, all head-hunting, and all
acts of violence and robbery. So energetic has he been, so powerful has
he become, that all who are bent on the old life fear him more than a
little, while the majority, the Dyaks of the interior, the peaceful
Malays, and the hard-working and ever-contented Chinese--all, in fact,
who long for a life spent in agriculture, in mining, or in trade--have
settled down wonderfully, placing full reliance in the Englishman and in
his word that, so far as he can prevent it, they shall be undisturbed.

