"But reform cannot be brought about in a day, or in a year for the
matter of that, and there are still numbers of Dyaks who, instead of
using all their energies in trade, have constant wars with one another,
often with the sole object of obtaining heads. Then, too, the pirates
have always been a severe thorn in the side of our friend, and, indeed,
have become so audacious that the _Dido_ has been sent to render help
to the English rajah. And that is the reason why you failed to find
her at Singapore, and also for our sailing from China. But you are
here at last, and will be able to tell us much that is valuable, for
our commander and the rajah have put their heads together, and have
decided to hunt these pirates out of their nests. Those at Sarebus,
or, I ought to say, at Paddi, on the Sarebus river, will come in for
particular attention, for the Dutchmen who commanded them have made them
notorious. In fact, had it not been for their presence I doubt that so
many ships of European build would have been set upon, for the Malays
fear a white man more than they do fifty or sixty of the Dyaks. However,
these Dutchmen have led them, and have done much harm to the trade with
Singapore. For that reason partly, and now because you tell us that one
has committed a deliberate murder, we shall pay attention to Paddi, and
before very long, I hope, we shall be able to let everyone know that the
pirates who live there are no more.

"But come. We will call for some refreshment, and when we have finished,
the rajah should make his appearance, for it is already near to
nightfall, and it is his custom to return before that hour if possible."

The officer went to a bell and sounded it with a stick which hung beside
it. Then, on a Dyak lad presenting himself, he spoke a few words of
English, which, with a few in the native tongue, helped to make his
wants known.

"They are wonderfully sharp, as I dare say you have observed," he said
as he threw himself back in his chair, "and this lad who serves the
rajah is very quick at gathering one's meaning. But we have still a
little time before us, my lad and if you are not too tired I'd like
to hear more of your story. I have told you what I know of the rajah,
and it is only fair that you should let me know how it was that you
reached your ship. Come, you sailed from Singapore, hoping to pick up
the _Dido_ in these seas, in which attempt you have been successful.
You ran foul of this Dutchman, by name Hanns Schlott--for whom his
countrymen are looking, so I hear,--and you took to the land. Then you
seem to have made friends with a tribe of Dyaks, in what manner I do not
know; and finally you have come to Sarawak with a fleet of prahus which
you and this small army took from the pirates of Sarebus. That is the
bare outline as you gave it to me, but there must be more behind, and I
should be glad to listen to the tale. Out with it, and do not keep back
a single item."

