Lieutenant Horton turned upon Tyler with an encouraging smile, and then
sat watching him as he told of the adventures which had befallen himself
and John Marshall on their way to Sarawak.

"You will do well, and deserve to have early mention in the despatches
which our commander will send to the admiral," said the lieutenant
when the tale was finished; "and it is easy to see that you and the
boatswain have had many an anxious moment. For myself, the conflict
with the mias seems to be the most dangerous, for the natives in these
parts tell stories of how the orang-outang can fight. In any case they
are fierce-looking monsters, and I am sure that there are few who would
willingly place themselves in reach of such murderous teeth and arms.
Indeed, many in your case would have been content to lie in the jungle
and remain hidden, for these Dyaks might well have proved enemies, and
for the sake of their own safety might have handed you over to the
Dutchman and his pirates. However, all turned out well, and you are
here. But what is that? Ah, the rajah has returned, and here he comes!"

He sprang from his seat to greet a tall gentleman who entered the room
at that moment, and then introduced Tyler.

"A new arrival," he said with a smile. "Come to join the _Dido_, but by
the strangest route possible. Permit me to present Mr. Tyler Richardson,
who was granted a commission for bravery in England, where he rescued
two naval officers from a grain ship, in the hold of which they had been
overcome by foul gas which had accumulated; and who, on his way to join
the _Dido_, has crossed many miles of Borneo, arriving here with a tribe
of friendly Dyaks, and with an imposing fleet of prahus, captured from
the redoubtable Dutchman who commands the pirates of Sarebus."

"Journey across Borneo! Sarebus pirates!" cried the new-comer, a
tall energetic-looking man, with clean-shaven and handsome features.
"Impossible! But, your pardon! I did not mean that I caught sight of
the strange vessels lying beside the _Royalist_ and the _Dido_, and
knowing by that fact that they could not be enemies, I hastened here
with the intention of sending off at once to ascertain where they came
from. You see," he added with a little smile, "we have to be careful of
all strangers, for a fleet of prahus is apt to be manned by pirates,
and should they manage to escape the notice of our ships, and pass our
guns, the poor Dyaks up the river would suffer. But I am interrupting.
You spoke of the Dutchman, Horton. What is the meaning of this riddle?
Surely you cannot mean that Mr. Richardson has been to Paddi, that
he has been a captive there? A Malay might have that fortune, but an
Englishman is never taken prisoner. He is killed without any mercy."

