"And so would our young friend have been," was the prompt reply. "The
facts are as I briefly stated them, Rajah. This young officer was
compelled to take to the land, and there he fell in with some Dyaks,
who feared the pirates. Together they have made for Sarawak, and on
their way here have contrived to capture or sink every prahu lying at
Paddi, while they have brought with them a ship lately taken from the
traders of Singapore, together with a child and her nurse. But there;
he has just given me the yarn, and it will not hurt him to repeat it,
particularly when he is aware that the facts will be of the utmost
importance."

Thus bidden, Tyler repeated his story, the Rajah of Sarawak listening
carefully to every word, and interrupting him at times to ask questions
as to the exact position of the stronghold at Paddi, the strength of the
enemy, and the precautions taken against attack.

"You have done us a great service," said the latter at length, when he
had obtained all the details, "for you are, with the exception of these
rascally Dutchmen, the only white men who have ascended the Sarebus
river. Thanks to you and your comrade, we shall be able to increase our
knowledge of the various bends and reaches, and, with the information
we already have derived from the natives, shall be able to find our
way to Paddi. But Rembas must be seen to first before we come to this
Hanns Schlott. However, the odds shall not deter us, for these pirates
must and shall be exterminated. They are the one great drawback to my
scheme, and were it not for them the natives of this part of Borneo
would already be settling down to a life of peace and prosperity. As it
is, their goods and their lives are never safe, while in the country
commanded and reached by the tributaries of the Sarebus the condition
of the unfortunate people is similar to that which existed here on my
arrival, when the rebellion was in progress. Yes, an expedition shall
be arranged without delay, and with you to guide us, Mr. Richardson,
and the men of the _Dido_ and of the _Royalist_ to follow us, we will
sweep these pests away and bring happiness and prosperity to the people.
But it is already dark and I am detaining you. Please come here again
to-morrow, so that I may talk the matter over more fully."

