With a hearty shake of the hand he dismissed them, the lieutenant and
Tyler returning at once to the _Dido_, where the latter found that all
was in readiness for him. Indeed, thanks to the fact that the tale of
his adventures had buzzed through the ship, his comrades, who were all
of about his own age, having already had more than a year's service,
greeted him as if he were an old messmate, and carried him away to their
own special sanctum without delay, there to pour questions innumerable
upon him, and to beg of him to tell them everything. But they were
destined to be disappointed, for scarcely had Tyler seated himself than
a marine arrived at the door with a request that he would dine in the
captain's cabin, and thither he betook himself without delay. When he
retired to his hammock that night, and rolled himself in a blanket, it
was with the knowledge that stirring times were ahead, and that ere
many days had elapsed he and his new friends would be on their way to
Sarebus, there to come hand to hand with the pirates.




CHAPTER XIV

A Dangerous Enterprise


"Pass the word for Mr. Richardson, please. He's wanted in the captain's
cabin immediately."

The order, conveyed by means of a marine, was called in stentorian tones
down the companion ladder leading to the narrow quarters in which Tyler
had breakfasted, and brought him to his feet with a flush upon his
cheeks.

"A wigging! He's going to catch it nicely!" sang out one of his new
messmates, giving vent to a bantering laugh. "The skipper wants to know
what he means to do with his fleet, and whether he has made arrangements
to victual his Dyaks. Stand aside there, you fellows, and permit the
admiral to pass! This way, sir, and if you're wanting a mate of sorts,
why, look about you, for here are the men!"

The young fellow who had shouted the words indulged in a comical
grimace, and placing his hand to his heart bowed in mock deference to
the lad who, up to a few hours before, had, indeed, been as good as an
admiral, for he had had command of quite a number of vessels, while the
fate of many individuals had been in his hands. However, Tyler was not
the one to take offence, particularly when his comrades had greeted him
in such a manner, and with a laugh, and a sudden dash at the banterer
which sent the latter sprawling on one side, he gained the companion and
commenced to mount to the deck above.

