"Right!" he called back with a merry laugh, "you shall all come with me,
and as for the victualling, you shall have the management of that, for
you have shown that you possess a hearty appetite, which will keep the
food question before you. But sorry I can't wait, you fellows. I'll send
for my first mate when I want him!"

A roar of good-natured laughter followed him up the ladder, and he
emerged upon the deck with smiling features, well pleased with the
manner in which he was treated by those with whom he had to live. Then,
straightening his dress, he went aft to the cabin in which Captain
Keppel had his quarters, and was announced by the marine who stood on
guard outside the door.

"Mr. Tyler Richardson," said the latter, throwing open the door. "Shall
he enter, sir?"

"Show him in, please," was the answer, "and send to Lieutenant Horton
with my compliments and with the request that he will kindly attend
here."

Next moment Tyler found himself in the presence of his commanding
officer, before whom he stood cap in hand.

"Come and sit here," said Captain Keppel, taking him by the shoulder,
"and make yourself comfortable, for I am going to have a discussion in
which you will have to take a part. You must know that Mr. Brooke has
at length managed to arouse the interest of the Government, who have
for very many years been indifferent to the trade which might result
to England by suppressing bloodshed in these parts, and in consequence
the _Dido_ has been sent here to help him, and with the main object of
putting an end to these acts of piracy which are so frequent, and which
invariably end in cruel murders and in slavery. That is the way. Sit
down in that chair, and try to remember every point in your journey down
the river Sarebus, for the information which you can give us will be of
the utmost value. But tell me, have you seen the little captive since
you brought her to Sarawak?"

"She was taken ashore at once, sir," responded Tyler, his interest in
the child being at once aroused. "You see, while on the schooner I had
so many things to arrange and to look to that I never had an opportunity
of speaking to the captives, or of asking them how it was that they had
fallen into the hands of the Dutchman."

