"Then I can tell you all about them," said the captain. "The child is
the daughter of a naval officer stationed with the China fleet, and at
present doing duty at Hong-Kong. She was on her way home to England for
the purpose of education, and was despatched by a schooner which would
take her to Singapore, where she would tranship to a mail boat bound for
home waters. The tale of her capture is nothing out of the ordinary, and
it suffices to say that this scoundrel of a Dutchman, of whom I hope to
hear more, came upon the vessel and took her without difficulty, for she
was manned by Chinese for the most part. They were killed at once, while
the nurse and the child were kept, probably with the idea that money
might be obtained for them. It was a gallant deed, Mr. Richardson, and
reflects the greatest credit upon you, for it would have been far easier
and far less dangerous for you to have gone off with the prahus and your
followers, leaving the two to their fate.

"But there, I see that you do not like to hear much about that part of
the matter; though before dropping the subject I consider that it is
only right for me to acquaint you with the fact that I have given a full
description of the rescue in despatches which I wrote after your arrival
here, and also that I have sent a letter to the officer whose child you
rescued.

"And now let us turn to these pirates, for I hear Mr. Horton's step
outside."

He turned to greet the chief officer of the _Dido_, and having motioned
him to a chair, placed himself at the end of the dining-table which
occupied a central position in the cabin.

"Oblige me by drawing closer," he said, "and cast your eyes over these
rough charts. They are some which I have prepared with the help of
natives who have ascended the Sarebus, and may or may not be correct.
And now, Mr. Richardson, kindly tell me which are the towns on the
river, adding any points which may be of importance."

Thus bidden, Tyler scanned the charts which his commander put before
him, and having asked for a pen and ink, and for a piece of blank paper,
began at once to sketch the true course of the river, as observed by
himself when escaping from Paddi.

