"Rembas is the first of the strongholds, and is said to be the most
powerful," he remarked. "But we had the good fortune to pass the pirates
of that name, they mistaking us for friends. Pakoo comes next, and then
Paddi, where this Dutchman has his residence. The river there divides
into two, and Paddi is placed on the tongue of land between the two
tributaries."

"And what about the bore?" demanded Captain Keppel eagerly. "I am told
that these pirates seem not to fear attack, and, indeed, scarcely make
any preparations for defence, except such as is necessary to keep native
tribes out, for they imagine that this bore protects them. It is caused
by the tide running into a wide mouth, and then suddenly finding only
a narrow course. The mass of water is still forced on, and, unable to
spread to either side, it rises till it forms quite a wall, and advances
up the river in that manner."

"With the result that it swamps any but boats of fairly large size,"
added the lieutenant. "At least, that is the account which the rajah
gave me, and he heard the tale from natives who had ascended the river."

"It may be so," Tyler answered, "but we did not meet with this bore on
our way down to the sea. Should there be such a thing, and I can well
imagine it, considering the straight course of the river and the manner
in which it suddenly narrows, it would not be very difficult to avoid
being swamped, for the bore will come with the tide, and at that time
any boats which might be conveying an expedition could be rowed into a
bay or creek, many of which exist all along the banks."

"And in there they could lie in safety!" exclaimed the commander of the
_Dido_, looking swiftly at his first officer. "It is a good suggestion,
Mr. Richardson, and I now perceive how it is that you managed to bring
the tribe of Dyaks through. Depend upon it, the man--or lad for the
matter of that, for you are scarcely more--who is gifted with common
sense, and with sufficient steadiness to use it, finds his resources
many, and a way out of difficulties which would be unsurmountable to
others less inclined to think. Then you would lie up in one of these
creeks if you were in command of the expedition?"

