"Yes, sir," replied Tyler with a flush. "I should row up for a quarter
of a mile, and then, if it were possible, I should disembark and haul
each boat into the jungle. Then there would be no danger of being
swamped, and once the bore had passed the expedition could push on
again."

"And probably take the enemy by surprise, for the latter would hardly
expect them, and would, in fact, believe that all had been drowned by
the bore. Yes, the plan will prove a good one, I am sure. And now to
discuss the other part, and to obtain a full description of the river
from you."

For more than an hour did the three pore over the charts, and discuss
the measures to be taken for the suppression of the pirates. Then Tyler
was addressed once more by his commander.

"And now I have a request to make," said the latter gravely, turning
to him slowly and scanning his features closely, as though he would
read his character by that means. "You have had more fortune than falls
to the lot of the vast majority of young fellows, for you have passed
through part of a country which is considered impossible for Englishmen,
a part where the Dutch have never dared to go. Moreover, you have met
these pirates face to face, and you have beaten them soundly; not in
actual hand-to-hand combat, you understand me, but in wits, in sharpness
and decision. Thanks to you and the information which you have given
so clearly, we are in a better position now to attack these pests than
ever before. But we are ignorant of the special precautions which
they will take; for, rest assured, they will hear of this intended
expedition, for their friends and sympathizers are everywhere, and
Sarawak is not without spies who carry tales to the enemy. That being
the case, they will make strenuous efforts to resist us, for they have
existed for a century and more and no one has ever been successful in
repressing them. For that reason they will fight the harder to beat
us back, and as a careful leader, who desires to lose as few men as
possible, I wish for fuller information if it can be obtained. You have
once before been in disguise. Will you don the same dress again, and
go to the Sarebus river in advance of our party, with the object of
spying upon the pirates, and of furnishing us with a warning as to their
intended movement?"

