For more than a minute did Captain Keppel keep his eyes fixed upon our
hero, searching closely as if to see whether he would flinch at such a
request, or show by a twitch of the lips, a wavering eye, or in some
other manner, that the task was likely to be too much, and would make
too great a call upon his fortitude.

"Mind," he went on, seeing that Tyler returned his searching gaze
unflinchingly and without so much as a tremor, "I make a definite
request, a suggestion that you should undertake this matter, for I am
well aware that you are the most fitted for it. But I realize the great
danger to be incurred, particularly when I bear in mind the fact that
you have a personal enemy in this rascally Dutchman, who has sworn
to obtain your head; and for that reason, and because a task of this
description is essentially one for a volunteer, I make no order. I do
not, on the strength of my being the commander of this vessel, while you
are a subordinate, tell you that you are to go. Come, think the matter
over. Go to your quarters and discuss it if you wish, returning here in
a couple of hours, when you will have had time to make up your mind. And
recollect this, that should you refuse to undertake the task I shall
not think the worse of you, for the adventure will be full of danger
and difficulty, and will take you right amongst the pirates and amongst
enemies from whom you were most fortunate to escape."

Once more did the captain of the _Dido_ lean back in his chair while he
gazed at our hero. But, had he expected to find any hesitation on the
latter's part to accept the post assigned to him, he was destined to be
mistaken, for not once had Tyler shown the slightest trace of fear.

"I would have answered at once," he said, suddenly breaking the silence
which he had maintained up to this, "but I have been busily thinking
whether I could possibly do as you say, whether the disguise of a native
of these parts would be sufficient, seeing that I am wholly ignorant
of the language. But what I have done once I can attempt again, and I
thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity. I do not require to think
it over, as my mind is already made up. I will do my best to obtain
the fullest information, and bring you warning of the movements of the
pirates. When can I set out?"

