"As soon as you are ready, my lad; and let me say that I admire you for
giving a decision so readily. There are few who would undertake the
matter, and, as I have said, not many who could make the attempt with as
much hope of success as yourself. You will, of course, want a companion,
for you do not speak the Dyak language, and might get into difficulties.
Make your own selection and your own plans without reference to me, for
you have shown such sense up to this that I can trust you to choose
well. When you are quite prepared for the journey, come to me, and I
will give you any further instructions which I may happen to have."

"And perhaps it would be as well, considering the fact that Sarawak
has many spies, to beg Mr. Richardson to keep silence on the matter,"
broke in Lieutenant Horton. "After all, a discussion amongst the other
officers might find its way elsewhere, and spoil our young friend's
chances of success."

"And perhaps endanger his life," said Captain Keppel eagerly. "Quite
right, Mr. Horton! and I thank you for the advice. Very well, my lad,
return as soon as you are ready, and tell me then how you mean to tackle
this matter. Remember that I leave it all to you, including the means by
which you are to reach the Sarebus."

With a bow and a hearty shake of the hand, which was repeated by the
first officer, Tyler was dismissed, and at once walked forward into the
bows of the _Dido_, well knowing that he would have no opportunity for
thinking if he rejoined his comrades below. Behind him he left the two
officers, still conversing eagerly, and wondering how this quiet young
fellow, who had joined the ship in such strange fashion and after the
most extraordinary adventures, would elect to carry out the matter which
had been entrusted to him.

"He is decidedly older than his age," remarked the lieutenant, "and I
will wager that he carries the task through brilliantly. He has his
head screwed on, and has a fine spirit. We shall see him charging at
the head of our men before these pirates are done with, and I prophesy
quick promotion for him. But I will leave you now, sir, if you no longer
require me, for I may be able to help our young friend in this matter."

