While the commander of the _Dido_ remains in his cabin or on the
poop of his vessel, restlessly trudging backwards and forwards, with
his thoughts for ever bent upon the coming expedition and upon the
precautions necessary to be taken, let us once more seek for Tyler in
the secluded spot away in the bows of the ship, where he had hidden
himself, well knowing that only there would he obtain that peace
and uninterrupted quietness which would permit him to give his full
attention to the journey which was before him. Seating himself upon the
sprit, where it came in through the rail, he bent his head on his hand
for the space of a few moments, while he rubbed his eyes as though the
action would enable him to see clearly into the future. Then he turned
his gaze in the direction of Sarawak, and let his eyes pass from hut to
hut, from the so-called palace of Rajah Brooke, the great Englishman
who had devoted himself to the cause of the Dyaks and of all people
inhabiting that portion of Borneo, to the quaint and straggling street
which cut through the main part of the town. Then, dreamily, and as
if his thoughts were too much occupied to take in all the details, he
allowed his view to cross a strip of jungle and fall upon a neat and
orderly settlement beyond. Houses built of bamboo, and displaying many
a flaring signboard in front, were clustered together in an orderly
manner, while many a thin wisp of smoke curled into the air. And about
the houses, engaged in the yards which most seemed to have attached to
them, were numbers of figures, working for their living, at peace with
all the world, and settled in this town of Sarawak as if they had been
there for years.

"Busy fellows," thought Tyler, suddenly attracted by the scene, and
indulging in a closer look. "The Chinaman is a wonderful worker, and a
very contented man. And I suppose that Li Sung is over there, having
found his wife and child."

He ceased speaking, and looked again with increased attention. Then he
rose to his feet, and, leaning on the rail, stared at the collection of
huts.

