"He is a shrewd fellow," he murmured, as though some thought had
suddenly come to him. "All Chinamen are clever and cunning; and Li is
thoroughly trustworthy. I will go across to him and chat the matter
over."

Conscious that the expedition before him was one which demanded no
little thought, and that to attempt to carry it out hastily, and with
little preparation, could only lead to misfortune, Tyler had determined
to take every precaution, and make every necessary enquiry before
setting out.

"Then whom else could I go to who is better able to give advice?" he
said to himself. "Li is a faithful fellow, and I believe is attached to
me. He has suffered at the hands of these pirates, and he will be glad
to see them exterminated. If I go to him he will be able to give me a
hint as to a disguise, and I can rely upon him to keep a silent tongue
in his head. I'll go across at once."

To act upon this decision was the work of a few moments only, for about
the _Dido_, keeping, however, at a respectful distance, a number of
native craft always hovered during the day. To hail a sampan, therefore,
was an easy matter, and very soon Tyler was being ferried to the shore.

"I quite forgot to ask permission to go!" he exclaimed, suddenly
recollecting that he was no longer his own master, and that he was
subject to the discipline of the ship. "However, I dare say that they
will accept my excuses, particularly when they hear for what reason I
have gone. Ah! here we are, and a short walk will take me to the Chinese
town."

Leaping upon the little landing-stage which had been erected, he tossed
a coin to the oarsman, for the paymaster of the _Dido_ had advanced him
a couple of months' pay. Then he strode off towards the houses which he
had seen from the ship, and was very soon in the street which divided
the dwellings.

"Where is Li Sung?" he demanded of the first man he met.

"Li Sung? Ah, him comee here wid de Dyaks and de whitee man!" said the
Chinee, using the curious pigeon-English which is common to men of
the race who attempt our language. "Yes, you findee him dere;" and he
pointed to one of the neat houses. "Li him velly sad."

