"Sad! For what reason?" thought Tyler. Then, thanking the man, he strode
to the door of the house and knocked, entering as a voice bade him do so.

"What is the matter?" he demanded, suddenly catching sight of a figure
huddled in a corner. "Is that you, Li Sung?"

At the sound of his voice the Chinaman sprang to his feet with a cry
of delight, exposing, however, a face which was woebegone to the last
degree. Then he darted forward and clasped Tyler by the hand.

"Li am velly sad man," he said. "He comee through so much, and he lookee
to de time when he comee home and meet him wife and child. But dey not
here, massa. Dey tink poor Li dead, he stay away so long, and dey sail
back to Singapore. Li all alonee!"

"Then you will be able to listen to me, and it will do you good not to
think of your trouble," said Tyler, taking him kindly by the arm. "You
can help me if you will."

"Den I listen, for Li am de servant. De massa am always kind to de
Chinee boy. He no kickee and hitee him, and him bringee Li through wid
de Dyaks. What does de massa say?"

"That you can do something for me. Come, let us sit down and talk."

Taking their seats beside one another, Tyler began to tell Li Sung of
the task before him; then for an hour or more the two chatted in low
whispers, the Chinaman asking many a question, and lapsing into silence,
often for the space of a minute, as he considered the matter.

"De plan do velly well," he said at length, with smiling features, which
were a contrast indeed to the air of sorrow which he had worn when first
his white master had accosted him. "De way to Paddi am open, and de
Chinamen go dere velly easy. De massa am wise, for he tink of dis, and
he say to Li: 'You comee wid me, and later on you havee money to go to
Singapore.' Dat allee dat Li want, and him not afraid of de Dutchman."

"I should think not!" exclaimed Tyler, delighted at the thought that he
had obtained a companion who would be so useful to him. "As you say, the
plan seems a good one, and I do not see why we should not be successful.
All depends on the disguise, and upon whom we meet in the river. But we
have been talking for long. Let us set about the preparations without
further delay."

