"For de chief!" he called out. "Dis am a letter, and de man here and me
comee to speak to de captain about de pirates."

"Oh, yer've got a letter, 'ave yer? Well, sit tight there till I've
called the sergeant," shouted the sentry. "Hi, sergeant, there's two
China boys wanting to come aboard!"

A few minutes' parley sufficed to obtain the necessary permission,
and then the two Chinamen having been searched to make sure that they
carried no arms and had no murderous intentions, they were allowed to
mount the gangway and step upon the deck.

"This way," said the sergeant, "and jest stop that 'ere kow-towing. I
ain't the captain."

Apparently it annoyed him to see the Chinamen bobbing there in that
senseless way, for he turned from them with a scowl and led the way to
the poop, where Captain Keppel was standing.

"Two men to see yer, sir," he said, shouldering his musket in salute.
"Two Chinamen, what says they've a letter for yer. Shall they come up,
sir?"

"A letter! Two Chinamen! Perhaps they have some information about the
pirates!" exclaimed the commander with a start. "Send them up, sergeant."

A minute later the two strangers were before him, to find that his chief
officer had joined him, while both were staring at these intruders, no
doubt wondering what information they had to bring.

"Well, what is it?" demanded the commander. "You have a letter, and as
far as I have been led to understand, you have some information to give
me. Now, get along with the business, and do stop that kow-towing."

At the words a half-hidden smile wreathed the features of the man who
had stood up in the craft, and who had had possession of the letter. But
in a moment it was suppressed, and, at once ceasing the bows with which
he had favoured the white man, he drew the document out of an inner
pocket and handed it to the captain.

"Dat am de plan of de river Sarebus," he said. "Fo Sing knowee de water
velly well, and Li Sung been dere many a time. De news in de town am
dat de Englishmen am to go to de river to fight de pirate, and Fo Sing
and Li Sung comee here to say dat dey willee go dere too, and take de
news to de pirates. If we not go, den de news reach dem all de same.
But s'posing we am dere, den we makee friends, we laugh and we eat
wid de pirate, and one velly fine day we come away again, and tell de
Englishmen allee dat we see."

