"Why, the man is proposing exactly what we had arranged!" gasped Captain
Keppel. "But I must keep that to myself. What do you think of this
offer, Horton? It seems uncanny that these fellows should have come
at such a time. One really begins to think that they have guessed our
plans."

"They can hardly have done that, sir," was the answer. "But would not a
second party be advisable? Then if one failed--you understand?"

"Quite so, exactly, though I trust that there will be no mishap. But
this fellow says that he has been to the Sarebus before. Probably one of
the pirates, if one could only get at the truth."

"Yes, that may be the case," replied the chief officer, with elevated
eyebrows, "but a Chinaman will do anything for gold. Here, what are you
asking for this work?"

He turned to the spokesman of the two who had come aboard, and demanded
his price, while he stared closely at him, watching him narrowly.

"For me, nothing, sir. I shall do my utmost for the navy. For Li Sung,
the Chinaman who accompanied me through a part of Borneo, and then down
the Sarebus, he asks merely that a passage shall be paid for him so that
he may sail for Singapore, there to rejoin his wife and family."

In a moment the tones of the Chinaman's voice had changed, and the
captain of the _Dido_ and his chief officer found themselves listening
to the young fellow who had so recently joined them. In utter amazement
they stared at him, only to find that he returned their glances gravely,
and with never a smile, for Tyler was in desperate earnest, and had come
aboard in this manner, not to make fun of those who were his superiors,
but to test the effectiveness of his disguise. Seeing that matters had
gone far enough already, and that, in spite of the brilliant light, and
of the fact that Captain Keppel and Mr. Horton were so close to him,
they had failed to recognize him, he at once spoke in his natural tones,
so that it might become clear who he was.

"What! Impossible!" exclaimed the commander, stepping forward swiftly
and thrusting his face close to Tyler's. "Mr. Richardson in disguise! It
cannot be; for this is a real Chinaman if ever I saw one. What do you
say, Horton?"

