"It is wonderful. The lad would pass inspection anywhere, and has
completely taken us in. I have no fears for him, for, dressed as he is,
even the Dutchman will fail to recognize him. But what are we to do? It
will never do to declare who is here, for the tale would fly round the
deck, and our men would have it before half an hour had passed."

"And the safety of the expedition and of these two might be
jeopardized," cried the commander. "Come down to the cabin, Mr.
Richardson, and leave your companion here with instructions to say
nothing and to keep his tongue between his teeth."

As if too dazed to say more, Captain Keppel turned about and led the way
to his cabin, the chief officer following closely upon his heels, and
Tyler bringing up the rear, kow-towing with the gravest of faces and the
most servile of manners as they passed him. Once the door had closed
upon them, however, the officers burst into hearty roars of laughter,
and for some little time could do nothing more than stare at our hero
and walk round and round him, closely scrutinizing his apparel. And well
they might, too, for the special duty which was about to take Tyler to
the Sarebus was one fraught with the gravest danger, and he was well
aware that discovery would mean death. For that reason Li Sung had taken
the utmost pains to transform him, and, thanks to the fact that on this
occasion he was at home, and surrounded with all that was necessary
for the purpose, he had contrived to provide a disguise which could
not have been improved upon. Indeed, as he stood there in the cabin,
Tyler was a Chinaman from his bald pate, with its dangling pigtail,
to his thick-soled shoes. Nothing had been passed over, and so clever
and painstaking had been Li Sung that the eyes seemed to be precisely
the same as those possessed by the normal Chinaman. In short, as the
interview upon the poop had proved, no one could recognize in the taller
of the two Chinaman the young officer who had but just come to the
ship; while even the leader of the pirates at Paddi would have passed
him by without a suspicion that this humble individual, who seemed to
find it necessary to kow-tow to every person of note or of the smallest
consequence, was the Englishman for whom he sought, and whom he had last
encountered in the guise of a Dyak chief.

