"Your acting is superb," Captain Keppel was at length able to blurt out,
"and I must really congratulate you, Mr. Richardson, upon the excellence
of your appearance. But tell me how you propose to proceed? Surely, if
you go up the river as you are, they will think that you are a man of
some wealth and will pounce upon you, for your clothes are better than
those worn, as a rule, by the Chinamen here."

"They are put on simply for the purpose of coming here, sir," replied
Tyler earnestly. "If one of the country which I am supposed to represent
had occasion to come to you, he would certainly don his best clothing
for the purpose. But I shall take others with me, and once up the river
I have but to strip off these outer garments and I become in a moment a
coolie, one of the men who is to be come across in every part, at work
upon the forest-trees, preparing a clearing in which to cultivate rice.
The pirates do not molest them as a rule, though the Chinaman's fear of
the former makes him keep at a distance from them generally. As to the
river, sir, I shall act as circumstances demand, but my idea is to row
boldly up to Rembas or to Pakoo and make friends with the pirates, with
the idea of escaping later on."

"It sounds terribly risky, my lad," exclaimed Captain Keppel, as though
a feeling of remorse had suddenly come to him for having selected this
young officer for such a task. "Do you think that it will be necessary
to actually throw in your lot with these men?"

"But, no--I will not interfere in any manner," he cried, after a
moment's thought, interrupting Tyler before he could give an answer to
the question. "I will leave the carrying out of the duty entirely to
you, well knowing that you will not be impetuous, and that you have had
an experience already which will be invaluable. You shall leave this
ship when our chat is ended, and shall make your way to the Sarebus when
and how you like. On your return to the _Dido_ I shall have something to
say, and let me remind you now that we have appointed the island at the
mouth of the river as a rendezvous, and that we shall sail there shortly
after you have left us. Till we meet--the very best of fortune, my dear
lad! As to getting there, I may say that the men who are looking after
the prahus which you brought from the Sarebus will at once hand any of
the vessels over when you show them this order."

