Stepping to a bureau, which was fastened to one wall of the cabin, the
commander of the _Dido_ scrawled a few hurried lines, and then handed
the note to Tyler. A second later the latter was kow-towing himself from
the presence of the two officers, his fingers aching with the hearty
shake and grip which each had given him.

"A remarkably fine young fellow, and with wits!" exclaimed the captain.
"He is an acquisition, Horton, and is as smart an officer as I ever came
across."

"And he is not spoilt by success, as so many would be, sir," burst
in the lieutenant "He is always in earnest, it seems to me, unless
skylarking with lads of his own age, and he is clever. Look at the way
he acted. Why, even a moment ago he did not allow himself to forget his
rôle, and I'll be bound that the marine on sentry-go outside has not the
faintest idea who it was he passed on to the deck."

That this was the case was abundantly evident, and had the door only
remained open, those within the cabin would have quickly learnt
the fact; for no sooner had the door closed than the sentry, an
ill-conditioned fellow with a particular dislike to foreigners, grasped
the Chinaman by the shoulders and hustled him on to the deck without
ceremony. Then with a scowl and a "Git on with yer!" he went back to
his beat, little thinking that his act was one likely to entail serious
consequences later on.

But Tyler did not allow his temper to be ruffled, and, hastening along
the deck, soon joined Li Sung. A moment or two later they were passing
down the gangway, and very soon the two officers, watching from the
gun-port in the cabin right aft, saw a tiny sampan swing out into the
stream and pull for the prahus which lay moored some little distance
away. A strong pull and it disappeared from sight, leaving the watchers
to wonder when they would see Tyler Richardson again, and what would be
his tale when he rejoined them.




CHAPTER XV

Off to the River Sarebus


Armed with the note with which the captain of the _Dido_ had had the
forethought to provide him, Tyler made direct for the prahus which had
been such a short while before in the possession of the men at Paddi,
and, still acting the rôle of a humble Chinee, clambered to the deck of
one upon which he caught sight of some British sailors.

