"From de captain," he said quietly. "Him say dat Fo Sing ask for one of
de boats and takee him away a little."

Tearing the letter open, the man to whom he had handed it read the
contents with a puzzled expression, for he was no great scholar.

"Deliver to the bearer, Fo Sing, any of the prahus which he may ask for,
and do not question him," ran the lines.

"Well, it's a rum order, and I can't say as I see what it's for,"
grumbled the tar, "but it's there, in the skipper's hand, and so it'll
have to be. Which'll yer have, Johnnie? There's a number of sail here,
and yer are to pick and choose. Jest look round and think a bit."

But Tyler had no need to think, for already he had selected the one
which he considered most suitable. And, therefore, he at once motioned
to the small prahu with which the head of the schooner had been warped
round when she lay at her moorings before the pirates' stockade, and
indicated that that was the one which he would select.

"Then you ain't greedy," was the answer, "and since the order's plain,
you'd better skip with the craft as soon as yer can, else perhaps the
skipper'll change his mind."

This difficulty settled, Tyler with his companion, Li Sung, were not
long in transferring themselves to the prahu, and at once, making their
sampan fast to her stern, they manned two of the sweeps, and rowed the
craft away to the creek from which they had originally set out.

"De China boy dere tink dat we buy him, and so not talk velly much,"
said Li Sung as they arrived in the tiny harbour. "Be sure dat dey see
us comee here, and dey wonder why and who you am. But I tellee dem dat
you a friend from de coast, and that satisfy dem. I say dat we go on a
trading voyage, and end at Singapore, so dat allee right, for dey know
dat poor Li wish to go dere. We must be plenty careful, massa, for dere
am bad men everywhere, and here am some who lovee de Dutchman and his
pirates."

"Then we will be very cautious," agreed Tyler, "and as I should be
certainly questioned if I were to come ashore, I shall remain here till
you have been able to do all that I have asked. Food we must have, and
for that purpose you will row back to the _Dido_ when the night comes,
and will take off a supply which will be prepared for you. Then there
will be weapons to be fetched also, and another boat is necessary, for
to enter the river with this would be madness. We shall want one of the
river-boats, which are without decks and which are propelled by means of
paddles. Here is money, and you must see what can be done in the matter.
Return as soon as the sun falls, and then we will row out to the ship."

