Having moored the prahu to a buoy in the centre of the creek, Tyler lay
down upon the floor and set himself to think, while Li Sung went ashore
in the sampan to carry out his master's wishes. As for the latter, he
had already thought the matter over, and realizing at length that no
amount of cogitation would help him, for who could say what difficulties
would confront him, he settled himself comfortably and very soon fell
asleep, overcome by the closeness of the atmosphere. When he awoke it
was near the hour of sunset, and happening to peep over the rail he saw
a figure approaching him in a small river-boat which would accommodate
two or three men, and could be easily managed by them.

"Good!" he said to himself; "he has managed that part of the matter,
and with that craft we ought to be easily able to ascend the river,
particularly when the tide makes in. Now for the food and other things."

Two hours later, when the sun had long disappeared and darkness covered
the water, the prahu cast loose from her moorings, and was rowed from
the creek with the river-boat in tow. Then, once in open water, her sail
was hoisted and her head turned down the stream which led from Sarawak
to the open sea.

"There will be a moon by the time we arrive at the mouth," said Tyler
as they swept along, "and we shall be able to set a course by its aid.
After that we can take it turn and turn about to steer and keep a watch.
How long will it take us to get to the Sarebus, Li?"

"P'r'aps two day, p'r'aps less, massa. Me no tellee now. Allee according
to de wind. Plenty same now, and if him hold, then we make de Sarebus
velly soon. But better keep de silence, for dere am ships in de river,
and p'r'aps de _Dido_ hail for us to stop."

Following this piece of good advice, for in those days none were allowed
to arrive in the river or depart from Sarawak without being challenged,
Tyler, who was at the helm, directed the prahu for the centre of the
stream, and kept her there till well at the mouth. Once someone sent a
hail in their direction, but it was instantly suppressed, perhaps by the
orders of those on board the _Dido_, who knew that their messenger must
be leaving about that hour. After that all was silence and darkness till
a gentle swell told them that they were at sea.

