"And here is the moon," exclaimed Tyler in tones of satisfaction. "We've
a long sail before us, and so I propose that we at once settle the
watches. You turn in, Li, while I take her on for three hours. Then you
can take the helm. When day comes we'll pull into some creek, and lie
up till night returns. Now, off you go!"

With a nod he sent the Chinaman to the bows, where he at once lay down,
and, accustomed to a hard bed and to his surroundings, promptly fell
asleep. As for Tyler, he stood upright there beside the helm, wondering
what was in store for him, and whether this expedition was destined
to result in similar success to that which had favoured the previous
one, or whether dire disaster was about to come upon himself and his
companion.

"In any case I shall do my best, and can a fellow do more?" he said. "If
possible, I shall remain hidden from the pirates, and return without
having given them a suspicion that they have been spied upon. But if
that is out of the question, I shall go to Rembas or to Pakoo, and trust
to luck. To hand myself over to the men at Paddi would be madness, for
the Dutchman suspects everyone, and would soon get to the bottom of my
disguise. Well, it's no use wondering, so I'll just jog along and be
thankful that the night is fine."

For three hours did Tyler maintain his position at the helm, steering a
course parallel with the coast, which he was able to distinguish dimly
on his right. Then, judging that he had done his turn of duty, he made
the tiller fast and went to awake the Chinaman.

"Your watch," he said, as he shook him. "It's a fine night, with a moon
and stars, so you will have no difficulty in keeping the course. Wake me
if anything disturbs you."

Leaving the prahu in the hands of Li Sung, Tyler lay down in the bows
and soon fell asleep, for by now he was hardened to an outdoor life, and
had become so used to lying down to rest in a different and a strange
place on every occasion, that nothing disturbed him or robbed him of his
sleep; indeed, not even the prospect of the expedition before him could
keep him awake, while the thought of danger and of difficulty produced
no anxiety in his mind.

