He pointed swiftly to a spot beside the exit of the river, where the
stream frothed and bubbled against some unseen object and was heaped
high in the air. But the caution was unneeded, for Tyler had already
guessed the cause, and had seen the commotion in that direction, and,
moving his tiller just a trifle, guided the prahu safely past the shoal.
A minute later they were running up-stream, with a high bank on either
side of them and a canopy of leaves and branches overhead. Selecting a
likely-looking tree, our hero steered for it, and, seeing that the banks
were soft and moss-grown, ran the bows into the mud close alongside. In
an instant Li Sung was overboard, rope in hand, and within a very short
space of time the prahu was tugging gently at her mooring as the stream
made efforts to bear her down to the sea.

"And now for a look round, and then for something to eat," cried Tyler,
beginning to search in the lockers in which their provisions had been
stored. "Boiled rice for the Chinaman and his friend, and a little
besides. Cut away, Li, and take a look about you. When you return, the
water will be hot, and you can complete the cooking."

At once the faithful fellow dived into the jungle which grew close up to
the edge of the river, leaving Tyler to make the preparations necessary
for a meal. Nor was the latter long in setting about the matter, for his
long sail had given him an appetite. Dragging out a kettle, which he
filled by dipping it in the stream, he placed it upon an oil-lamp which
he had had the forethought to bring with him, and then hunted for the
rice, which was the staple food of the Chinaman who accompanied him. A
frying-pan soon made its appearance, together with a second stove, and
by the time Li Sung returned to the prahu a couple of rashers of bacon
were frizzling over the flame, while the kettle was singing merrily.

"De forest am alone, massa," said Li, as he sprang from the bank on to
the craft. "Dere no one near, and we can live and sleep here velly fine.
Ah, de water am boiling, and Li put de rice in! It am a good ting to eat
in de morning."

