Thanks to the leafy covering which wrapped them in, Tyler and his
companion passed a peaceful day, which was undisturbed by the rain which
continued to fall in torrents. Nor did anyone come to upset them. As
soon as evening arrived, and they had eaten another meal, they prepared
to set out once more, and at once began to hoist the sail.

"Not start yet awhile," said Li Sung, casting his eyes towards the
entrance. "It still am light enough to see out dere, and p'r'aps dere am
a ship passing. Wait, and soon we go. Li just run on shore again for a
little bittee, and come back wid de coats which keep de rain away."

Without further explanation he leapt to the bank and went into the
jungle, where Tyler could hear him breaking branches down. Ten minutes
later, as the sun disappeared and darkness began to fall, he leapt once
more upon the prahu and presented his master with a mat composed of
leaves and reeds which had been roughly secured together.

"Dere," he said in accents of pleasure, "dat light, and stay on de
shoulder easy, while it keep de rain away. Massa try him, please."

Motioning to Tyler that he was to put his head through the hole which
had been left in the centre, Li spread a mat over his own shoulders,
the tail of the leaves falling well over the arms and body, but lying
so loosely and lightly that the limbs could be freely moved. And thus
equipped with a protection against the rain commonly used by the Dyaks,
and known as a kajan, they cast off the mooring, and having hoisted the
sail, stood boldly for the sea. Then, turning up the coast, they held on
their course without interruption till the following morning found them
standing in to the mouth of the river Sarebus.

"And now we must be doubly cautious," said Tyler, as they ran the prahu
into an out-of-the-way nook and lowered the sail. "No doubt pirates
are about in all directions, and they will be familiar with those who
live in the neighbourhood. For that reason they would want to inspect
strangers if they happened to see them, and though we look innocent
enough, and have a good tale to tell, yet the fact that I do not speak
Chinese or the Dyak tongue is so much against me that I should always
stand the great risk of being discovered; and if that happened--"

