"De pirate choppee de head," exclaimed Li. "Massa no need to tell him
servant dat. But we havee velly fine tale to tellee de men of Rembas and
of Pakoo, though Li not tink it safe for massa to go to Paddi, where de
Dutchman am. We only poor China boys, who not likee de British and deir
ships, and who am wanting money. We hear dat de white people come velly
soon to fight de pirate, and we come ever so fast to tell him. We say we
will fightee for dem, and when dey not lookin' we run away and come back
to our friends. Oh yes! Li him see velly clear, and he say dat allee be
well. But we must be plenty careful. What does de massa wish to do?"

"Sit down there and listen. I will tell you in a few words, for we are
at our destination now, and we must not delay. My proposal is that we
make the prahu very fast, so that we may be sure that she will be here
on our return. Then we will take to the river-boat and the paddles, and
will row into the river, getting as far up-stream as possible before the
day dawns. It is already much lighter, though I think that we can count
upon a good hour longer. By that time, with the tide to help us, we
should be some distance up, and shall, perhaps, have gained a position
from which we can set a watch upon our enemies. After that all depends
upon the pirates and upon circumstances. Come, bustle up, Li! Get out a
gun for each of us, leaving the spare ones here, for we could not manage
to carry them. Then we will take a bag of ammunition beneath our coats,
for we may suddenly find that we require a large amount, and, of course,
we must not forget food. There is a lot of cooked and preserved stuff
which will suit very well, and for water we can rely upon the river.
There, look lively while I see to the vessel."

At once all was movement upon the prahu, for if Tyler and his companion
were really to make a commencement of their task, and were to occupy
a position of advantage before the day dawned and the light came to
show them to the enemy, they must move without further delay. That both
realized this to the full, and that their safety would now depend on
their caution and discretion, was abundantly evident, for they set to
work silently, but with a bustle and an energy which showed that their
hearts were in the matter. Leaping to the shore, Tyler rapidly bent
another cable in position, and lashed it to a tree, just as had been
done on the previous night. Then a third was taken from the stern, and
the vessel brought tight up against the bank.

