"That will do for her, I think," muttered Tyler, running swiftly over
the knots to see that they were fast. "If she is found lying here, of
course anyone can walk aboard her. But it would have been very difficult
to moor her farther out in the stream, and even then a sampan would have
taken the finder to her. And now for the river-boat."

Going aft, he found that Li Sung had already provisioned the tiny craft,
and was standing in the bows awaiting his master, with a rifle in either
hand and a couple of waterproof bags of ammunition over his shoulder.

"Li am ready for massa," he said simply. "Where am he to sit? Li wait
for orders, and him will do just what him am told."

"Then stay here in the bows," said Tyler shortly, "for you have keener
sight than I have. When I have passed you, take the paddle and cast off
the painter. But first, just sling that rifle over your shoulder. I will
do the same."

Suiting the action to the word, he and his companion were soon in
position, each with a paddle in his hand. Then the painter was cast off,
and at once the tiny craft shot from beneath the trees and out into the
river.

"The tide is still on the ebb, so we will keep in near the trees,"
called Tyler gently, as they swept away from the bank. "By doing so we
shall have less difficulty in making good progress, for the current will
be less swift. A glance overhead will always tell you whether we are
keeping the right course, and as you will be the first to notice when
we go astray, just call to me so that I may know it. Now, in with the
paddles."

Keeping time with one another, they sent the light boat up the stream at
a good pace, and when an hour had gone had the satisfaction of knowing
that they had made excellent progress, while half an hour, perhaps, of
darkness remained to them. And now their course was shaped for the bank,
for they did not dare to run the risk of being observed. Very soon they
came to a part where the trees grew close down to the water, and here
they remained till the day dawned, clinging to the boughs so that the
stream should not carry them down again.

