"It is light enough to see now," said Tyler at length, "and we will
push in and take up a position from which we shall be able to see
without being observed by people who may be passing on the river. Lift
the boughs gently, Li, and pull us in. That's the way. Now we are in
open water again, though it is only a narrow stretch, and can use our
paddles."

Gently propelling the craft, they sent her on beneath the low-hanging
boughs, and finally came to a halt when they had traversed about half
a mile of the leafy avenue. And here they made fast with the painter
and at once began to eat, for there was no saying when they would have
another opportunity. Then they turned their faces to the river and
peered from amongst the covering, being able to see right across the
river.

"We have a long row before us, and have need of all our strength," said
Tyler, "and for that reason we will take it in turns to rest, for this
night-work is very tiring. You lie down, Li Sung, and I will wake you
later on."

And so, whilst one kept watch on the river, noting the boats which
passed, the other slept, the following night finding them both refreshed
and prepared for the work before them. Issuing from the trees they once
more took to the stream, and when the following day was at hand were in
the neighbourhood of Rembas, the lowest of the piratical strongholds.

"What is that?" demanded Tyler suddenly as they lay on their paddles,
staring at the opposite bank, and wondering whether or not they were
opposite Rembas. "I heard a sound behind us, and I am sure that it did
not come from the bank."

Both sat up and listened eagerly, only to turn to one another in
perplexity, for neither could fathom the nature of the sound which had
caused them alarm.

"It is a curious hissing," said Tyler in troubled tones, "and as I said
before, I am sure that it comes from the direction of the mouth of the
river. But what can it be? To me it sounds like water."

"Perhaps it am de tide, de sea making into de river," suddenly suggested
the Chinaman in tones of alarm. "If so, we better row, massa, for de
bore am terrible, and would fill dis boat to de top. Yes, Li have
listened, and he not like de sound. Row, massa, or we be drowned."

