That Li Sung was alarmed there could be no doubt, for he had spent some
time on the river in the service of the men of Paddi, and he well knew
of the danger of the bore caused by the tide as it swept into the upper
reaches. Indeed, at any other time he would have thought of the matter
and would have warned his young master; but the fact that they were on a
spying expedition, and that all their energies were devoted to keeping
watch for the enemy, had caused him to forget it. Now, however, as the
sound swept with great rapidity towards them, he recognized the meaning
of that ominous hissing, and, turning swiftly to Tyler, urged him to
row for his life. Plunging paddles into the water the two strained at
their work, in the desperate attempt to reach the bank before the tide
overwhelmed them. But they were too late to escape, and hardly had they
gained more than twenty yards when the full strength of the bore rushed
upon them. In the gathering light each saw a moving wall of water,
some five feet in height, rushing towards them, and though at a shout
from Tyler the bows of the craft were swept round to meet it, in the
hope of riding over it, the oncoming water seized them in its powerful
grasp, swung the boat round as if it had been a top, and then washed
clean over it, upsetting it and turning it bottom upwards. As for the
two occupants, they were torn from their seats, and carried on with the
flood for some feet. A minute later they appeared upon the surface,
swimming for their lives.

"Make for the boat," shouted Tyler, striking out in that direction. "The
bore has passed now, and the water is smooth; but the tide runs strong,
and we must have support."

Without wasting further breath he swam lustily in the direction of the
overturned boat, and very soon reached it. In an instant he had slipped
the bag of ammunition from his shoulders, and had placed it on the flat
bottom of the craft. The rifle followed, and then, conscious that he was
now free to help, he turned to see how Li Sung was faring.

