"He is drowning," he suddenly gasped, catching sight of the unfortunate
Chinaman struggling in the water feebly, with head almost submerged, and
a look of terror and despair on his face. "Hold on a little! Stick to
it, Li, and I will be with you."

Without hesitation he relinquished his grasp of the upturned boat and
struck out for the Chinaman. A moment or two and he was beside him,
when he at once clasped him by the shoulders, and, putting out all his
strength, turned the unfortunate man upon his back.

"Lie still and I will tow you to the boat," he shouted in his ear. "The
rifle and ammunition are evidently too much for you. That's it. There is
nothing to fear, and you will soon be safe."

Fortunately for our hero, Li Sung, though near to the point of sinking,
had still retained consciousness, and as soon as he heard Tyler's voice,
lay perfectly still on his back, not daring to struggle lest he should
ruin his own chances as well as his master's. A moment later he felt
himself being gently towed through the water, and at once instinct told
him that he could help by kicking out with his legs.

"That's the way," sang out Tyler encouragingly, though in breathless
tones. "Stick to the job and we shall be there very soon. Now, one
moment while I turn you over, and there you are."

The whole incident had happened so quickly that when the two found
themselves clinging to the boat, and staring at one another in the
gathering light of another day, they could scarcely realize how they
came to be there, nor the fact that the bore had caught them in its
terrible embrace and had overwhelmed them. For several minutes they
retained their hold, while they looked about them with anxious eyes and
panted to regain their breath.

"A narrow shave," said Tyler at last, "and we are lucky not to be at the
bottom of the river. But we cannot stay here, for the day has come, and
we shall be seen. Come, rouse yourself, Li, and let us get to the bank.
There should be no difficulty, for the tide is sweeping us there."

