"One little bit and Li be ready," was the answer, as the Chinaman gasped
for breath. "Dis boy not be alivee at allee if massa not dere. Li say
dat you save him, and he tank you. Now me ready. Which way, massa?"

"The shortest road, and the quicker we are there the better, for I
think that I see a collection of huts on the opposite bank, and it may
be Rembas. Come, let me take your bag of ammunition and your rifle.
Fortunately this boat has a flat floor, and the things will stay on
top without difficulty. There, you are ready now, and so put all your
strength into it."

Thanks to the rest which they had had, and to the fact that they were so
quickly able to relieve themselves of the weight of the rifle and bag
which had weighed them down, the two were able to strike out lustily
for the bank which was on their right, and, aided by the tide, were
soon within easy distance of it. By now, too, the light had increased,
so much so that they could see that the object to which Tyler had drawn
attention was indeed Rembas, the home of a horde of pirates, and at
once fear lent power to their limbs, and they sent the overturned boat
rapidly on her way.

"Kick with all your might," shouted Tyler, glancing uneasily over his
shoulder. "If we can get to the trees within the next few minutes we
may escape the eyes of the people over there, for the day has only just
dawned. Send her along, for I tell you that our lives depend upon our
exertions."

That the Chinaman understood was evidenced by the manner in which he
lent his aid to the task, and so lustily did the two thrust at the boat
that very little time had elapsed before they had disappeared beneath
the boughs which overgrew the water, and were standing upon the bottom.

"Drag her to the shore and turn her up," said Tyler quickly. "Now, lift
the ammunition-bags and the guns, and over she goes. That's the way, and
now we are ready in case we have been seen."

"Massa can knowee for sure dat dat am de case," cried Li Sung, with a
shake of the head. "As we kick and push along Li turn him head and see
men over deir, and him velly certain dat dey see him. P'r'aps dey tink
dat it am fishermen only, but den dey not catched by de bore. Dey talk
it over while dey eat de morning rice, and den some of de young men
comee dis way to lookee what havee happened."

