"In which case we shall be discovered," said Tyler curtly. "Then we will
make a fight of it. I am inclined to think like you, Li, and believe
that in spite of our exertions we shall be followed. Curiosity will
get the better of those people, and they will cross the river to see
who it was who was swamped by the tide. We cannot possibly meet them
as friends, for that was to be our last resource, and just now, with
my disguise in this condition, I should certainly be discovered. So
we shall have to keep them at a distance, and that being the prospect
before us, I vote that we at once search for a spot suited to our needs.
What about that rock over there?"

He pointed along the avenue formed by the overhanging boughs to an open
patch, into the centre of which a steep rock jutted.

"It seems at this distance to be suitable," he went on, "for it has some
bushes on it to form a covering, and it is not overgrown by trees. We
should be able to get shelter by piling up a few boulders, and, while
hidden ourselves, could tell the instant an enemy attempted to approach
us."

"Den let us go, massa," cried Li, "for me see dat a boat have put out
from Rembas, and velly soon de pirates be here."

Stepping into the boat they grasped the paddles and had very soon
reached the edge of the trees. And here Tyler sprang ashore and dived
into the jungle, for to have taken the boat out into the open would
have been madness, as she would at once have stood out against the bank
and have been seen by those in the boat which had just shot from the
opposite shore.

"It will do well," cried Tyler in tones of delight as he reached the
back of the rock and closely inspected its surface. "I reckon it to
be at least a hundred feet in height, and at the back it is almost as
smooth as glass, while it is far too steep to be climbed, even by the
most active of natives. Then, as I remarked before, the trees seem to
have fought shy of this spot, probably because the ground about is
rocky, and so there is a wide clearing all round. Yes, it will be a
refuge, and if the worst comes to the worst we can hold it against the
enemy. Now for the boat."

