Running back to his companion he beckoned to him to bring the craft
close in, and then hastily issued his orders, for he realized that there
was no time to be lost if they wished to take up their position on the
rock.

"We will run her up and then carry her as near to the rock as possible,"
he said. "By turning well away from the water we shall be able to
reach a point from which we can move into the open without being seen,
and there we can leave the boat if we wish, for she will be under our
rifle-fire."

"But at night de pirates burn her or carry her off, and den what will Li
and massa do?" demanded the Chinaman. "Dere am no great weight here, and
de two of us carry him easily."

"Very well, then, we will carry her as she is right up to the rock. When
she is there we can hide her amongst the bushes, and can carry up what
provisions are left, though I fear that the majority of our supply has
been washed away. But we shall see, and if we are pressed for food we
can make a line with the help of a creeper, and a hook from one of the
forest thorns, and do our best to catch a few fish. Now, up with her and
let us trot."

Grasping either end of the river-boat they lifted it upon their
shoulders and went into the jungle at a run. Then, as soon as they had
arrived at the point from which they were no longer visible to those on
the river, for the rock rose up between them and it, they boldly crossed
the open space and deposited their burden in a thick bush at the base. A
rapid search discovered a bag of provisions which had escaped the bore
owing to the fact that it had become jammed in the bows, and with this,
their muskets, and bags of ammunition, they commenced to scale that face
of the rock which looked out to the river, and which was so broken and
irregular that it gave ample facilities for climbing.

"Creep on all-fours and keep as low as you can," said Tyler in low
tones, casting a glance towards the boat which was being rowed in their
direction. "By that means we may escape discovery, and we shall be able
to entrench ourselves. Of course I know that those fellows will track
us, but if we are careful they will not know exactly where we are, and
when the time comes for fighting we shall have the advantage of taking
them by surprise. Ah, here is a likely spot! It is high up, gives us a
wide flat space upon which to lie, and has an ample covering of bushes.
Give a hand here, Li, while I pile up a few of these boulders."

