Placing their burdens upon the ground, and still taking the precaution
to creep on hands and knees, they quickly arranged a number of boulders
into a semicircle, piling them one on the other till they formed a wall
which would give protection against rifle-fire, but through which the
defenders could keep watch upon the enemy and return their shots. Then
they turned to their weapons and carefully inspected them.

"Two rifles and two revolvers," said Tyler, dragging the latter from
beneath his coat.

"And a knife, massa," burst in Li Sung, displaying a formidable weapon
which was thrust into the cloth which he wore about his waist.

"Then we ought to do well, Li. We will make an equal division, taking a
gun and a revolver each. Now for the ammunition. How glad I am that the
bags were waterproof! It was my captain's suggestion, and it may save
our lives. We will open them and spread the contents in the sun. Then
any dampness will be dried, and we shall have no fear of miss-fires."

It took little time to make all their preparations, and ere many
minutes had passed all four weapons were loaded, and their muzzles were
protruding from the face of the wall, having been thrust through the
embrasures purposely left between the boulders. As for the defenders
of this solitary position, they had taken their posts behind the wall,
and lay there, with fingers upon their triggers and eyes glued upon
the boat, which by now had approached so close to the bank that the
occupants were easily visible.

"Ten of them in all, and a fierce set of fellows they look," said Tyler
in the coolest of tones. "I see, too, that they have muskets with them,
so we may expect a fusillade before long. But first let them find us and
make up their minds that we are enemies and then the fun will begin."

"Dey make no doubt dat we not friends," exclaimed Li Sung with an
emphatic wag of his head. "Dey knowee dat no man enter de river unless
he belong to de pirate. And if he am a friend he come straight to dem.
But we not dare to do dat, and when dey see dat we reach de shore, and
not try to row over to Rembas when de boat am floating again, dey knowee
for sure dat we enemies. Velly soon massa will hear de pop of de gun,
and den we havee to fightee. Li Sung likee dat velly well, for dese men
am de same as dose who took him from him little wife and him child, and
he hate dem."

