"Then you will stand beside me to the last," said Tyler, turning upon
him and staring into his eyes. "Remember that we cannot save our lives
by giving in to these people, for they are the sort of men who do
not understand mercy. So to submit to them would merely be to bring
instant death. For that reason we will make a big fight of it, and
let us recollect that to do that we must hold our fire till they are
climbing the rock, and then make every bullet tell. We need not answer
a shot from their guns till they are close upon us, for we are out of
their range, and the bullets will not pass through this wall. Once they
attempt to rush us, however, we will let them have a volley and drive
them back."

"Yes, and Chinee boy makee de sling," cried Li Sung with a show of
excitement which was strange to him. "You watchee, massa, and see what
him do. When Li one little boy in China him killee de bird and beast wid
stones from de sling, and he do de same for dese men. Lookee at dat."

For once the stolid nature of this son of the East broke down under the
excitement of the moment, and his usually impassive and wooden face
became wreathed with cunning smiles as he spoke to his master. Then,
with dexterous fingers, and with a rapidity which was wonderful, he tore
a strip from his strong cotton clothing, folded it into a long band, and
at once began to select a suitable stone.

"Find plenty here," he said as he groped about, "and enough to last
velly fine time. Massa watch dat tree over dere. Li hit him just above
de water."

Pointing to a durian which grew on the bank of the river, with its trunk
emerging from the water, he placed a stone in his improvised sling, and
raising himself till his figure almost showed above the wall and the
surrounding bushes, he sent the missile hurtling at his target. Thud!
Even at that distance the sound of its blow could be heard, while a
splash immediately following told that it had fallen into the river.

"Pirate not likee dat," he said with a smile of pleasure on his face.
"Stone hittee velly hard."

