"And these boulders still harder," chimed in Tyler, delighted at the
thought that they had at their feet a means by which they might husband
their ammunition and yet exchange blows with the enemy should the latter
see fit to attack them. "If they try to climb up here I will give them a
few boulders while you tickle them with the sling. But, steady, Li, for
they are now close at hand. Evidently they mean to look into the matter
thoroughly, for they are making for the spot where we entered beneath
the boughs. Then they will follow us up, and will soon come across us
here. Keep out of sight whatever you do."

Breathless with excitement, the two upon the rock watched the ten
pirates by means of the embrasures in their hastily-built wall, and
losing sight of them for some few minutes as they disappeared beneath
the trees, soon saw them again as they too came to the part where the
jungle ceased, and the open space intervened between it and the rock.

"Sending men into the forest on our tracks," said Tyler calmly. "Get
your sling ready, but remember, not a shot till I give the word."

With fast-beating hearts the two awaited the reappearance of the men,
and very soon they were seen running towards the rock. At the same
time those who had remained in the boat paddled forward till they were
opposite their hidden enemies. Then for some few minutes the two parties
shouted to one another, for they were uncertain how to act. However,
remembering that two alone had been seen in the boat which had been
overturned by the bore, and that they were ten in number, the pirates
decided to probe the mystery to the bottom, and those in the boat having
landed, all came towards the rock with the evident intention of scaling
it and capturing the fugitives.




CHAPTER XVI

Hemmed in


"Wait while I call to these fools and order them to come to us," cried
one of the enemy, as he and his comrades walked at a leisurely rate
towards the rock near the summit of which Tyler and Li Sung were in
hiding. "They are probably merely Dyak fishermen who have been washed
into the river and swamped, and why should we take the trouble to climb
for them. Let them come down to us."

