Once more did the leader of the little band of pirates spring upon the
boulder, the better to observe the rock, and shout a message at those
who he was sure were in hiding there. Then, hearing no answer, he and
his men put their heads together and once more discussed the matter.

"We waste time," at last said their leader. "Finding that the dogs will
not come to us, which perhaps is not to be wondered at, seeing that they
have nothing to gain, but their heads and their lives to lose, we will
go to them, and afterwards reward ourselves at the expense of their
convenience and comfort. Come, Penchu, yours is the post in advance.
Show us the way."

For a moment it looked as though the dusky Malay who had at first
proposed that the rock be searched would decline the honour thus thrust
upon him, for he glanced above him, and then doubtfully at the bushes
which grew in all directions, wondering which of them hid the enemy.
But his comrades were there to aid him, and, besides, there were only
two above, and they were undoubtedly half-drowned by their upset in
the river. With a scowl at his leader, and a second glance above, he
suddenly made up his mind, and drawing a kriss of large size from his
belt, gripped it between his teeth and turned to the rock.

"Follow me," he shouted, removing the weapon as he did so, "and this
kriss to the man who can be before me in the race to the top. Mind, this
weapon, which I had from my father, goes to the man who can reach these
dogs and slay them in spite of my efforts. Now, I am about to make the
attempt."

He waited a moment to give his comrades time to take up the challenge
and to draw their own weapons. Then he sprang at the obstacle before
him, and, using both hands and feet, came clambering up at a rapid rate.
Beside and behind him rushed his comrades, all eager to be first in the
race, for the prospect of winning a kriss had the greatest attraction
for them, while there was always the hope that one particular man would
have the honour of slaying those who were in hiding.

