"Wait for the word," said Tyler, with difficulty restraining his
excitement. "The time has not yet come, but will be here very soon. Are
you ready? Then watch me, and as I lift the boulder take aim with the
sling."

It was hard work to lie there behind that wall and watch with calmness
as ten fierce Malay pirates climbed to the assault, and more than once
was Tyler tempted to give full play to his impetuosity and spirit, and
commence the battle by flinging his boulder down the rock. But as yet
the distance was so great that he might well have missed his aim, and
for that reason he still remained in a crouching attitude, his hands
clasping the boulder, and his eyes fixed upon the figures below.

"Time's up!" he said quietly, when he judged that they were near enough.
"Ready? Then fire!"

Putting out all his strength he shouldered the piece of rock and rose
from behind the bush. A swift glance told him that three of the enemy
were directly beneath him, and in an instant, and without a trace of
hesitation, he launched the missile at them, watching as it fell
to learn what success he had. Crash! The boulder with ever-increasing
pace fell upon a moss-clad spot some twenty feet above the pirates,
causing them to raise their eyes in that direction and come to a sudden
halt. Then, leaping as if it were alive, it cannoned from the place,
and, twirling with frightful rapidity, flew into their midst, sending
all three rolling to the bank below, where they lay stunned or killed
by the impact. As for Li Sung, stealthily leaning over the barrier he
selected the leading man, the one who had been given the post of honour,
and, flourishing the sling about his head, suddenly let the stone free.
Ah! more sudden than the boulder which had disposed of three of the
attackers the sling sent the stone swiftly to the mark, and ere the
Malay could cry out in dismay, or lift a hand to ward off the blow, it
struck him full upon the forehead, causing him to toss his arm above
his head and then roll to the foot of the rock a helpless and lifeless
object.

