[Illustration: "HE LAUNCHED THE MISSILE AT THEM"]

"That will teach them caution," said Tyler, sinking down into his old
position and at once beginning to place another boulder upon the edge
of the wall, "and I believe that none of them saw where the shots came
from. We will play the same game again, though they will certainly
discover us next time, for they will keep their eyes turned to the upper
part of the rock, and will not do as they did before, and rush headlong
and with their gaze bent upon the path immediately at their feet. Ah,
they are having a talk, and do not seem to like the affair!"

Peering through one of the embrasures he could obtain an uninterrupted
view of the bank of the river and of the surroundings of the rock, and
watched eagerly as the surviving natives, filled with alarm at the
sudden misfortune which had fallen upon their comrades, turned as if
with common consent and went rolling and scrambling down to the ground
below, each eager to get to a place of safety. Then they gathered
together at the edge of the water, and for a little time it looked as
though they would take to their boat and fly to the opposite shore. But
their leader restrained them, and at his orders they returned, and began
to walk cautiously towards the foot of the rock.

"We were scared by the suddenness of it all," said the man who was in
command, a long, lanky Malay of forbidding appearance, who carried a
kriss of unusual dimensions. "But we can never think of retiring; for
recollect, my brothers, we are in better case than they, for they are
but two, and are probably barely able to stand after their upset in the
river and their struggle to reach land. Take heart, then, and first,
before renewing the attack, let us take a look at our comrades who have
fallen. For myself, I scarcely know how it is that they came to their
end, for I was climbing with hands and feet, and with my eyes engaged
in picking out the best path by which to reach the top. Then there was
the thud of the boulder falling, and when I looked, three of our good
friends were falling, while Penchu, who led us, had sprung into the air
for all the world like a beast which had just been struck with an arrow.
Come, let us move forward, for our comrades at Rembas would laugh us to
shame were we to return and tell them that we had been driven off by two
half-drowned Dyaks."

