Flashing his kriss in the sun he led the way to the fallen pirates, and
turned each one on his back.

"Dead!" he said as he looked at them. "Comrades, their end was swift
and sure, as may ours be when the time comes. Now for Penchu. Ah, see!
he was struck by a stone thrown with great force, for his forehead is
driven in and the skull cracked. Then all the better for us, I say, for
this proves that our birds up there are unarmed."

"Which is just what one could expect, my brother," cried one of the
number crowding about him. "Men who are caught in the bore are lucky
indeed if they escape with their lives at all, while to do so they would
certainly have to discard their weapons. We have them safely, and I
propose that we make the attack again."

"For what reason should we run the risk of having our bodies crushed
with another boulder?" demanded another swiftly. "They are above us,
that we know, though where they are hidden is another matter. Very well,
they will have seen long ere this that resistance is useless, and that
to prolong the fighting and kill more of our party will only lead to
suffering on their part. Let that be pointed out to them, and I warrant
that they will come down to us gladly and submit quietly to what is
bound to follow even as surely as the night comes after the day."

"A grand suggestion, and one which we will put in practice," exclaimed
the leader, snatching at the chance of avoiding further danger. "Stand
quiet, all of you, and listen as I shout to them. Above there!"

Once more he placed his hands to his mouth, so as to make the sounds
carry farther, and called to those in hiding. But there was no answer,
though he repeated the words on four occasions.

"Then I will say what I have to say to the rock, well knowing that they
will hear," he cried, seeing that his call had been ignored. "Above
there! You who are in hiding on the rock, and who have killed four of
my men, I give you warning that we will kill you, as you deserve, if
you resist us again. For the loss which you have caused your lives are
forfeit, and I call upon you to come down to us and suffer the penalty.
Failing that we will drag you down by the neck, and then you shall learn
what it is to lose a life with difficulty. Come, we wish you no worse
than those others whom we have captured on former occasions. Come down
and let the matter be ended."

