"The day advances, and soon the noonday heat will be upon us," said
their leader in tones of vexation. "Let us put an end to this matter at
once, and then return to Rembas. It is plain to all that the dogs who
killed our friend will keep to their lair till we hunt them out, and
that being the case, we will rush to the attack again. Keep your eyes
open and fixed well above you. Your hands and feet will be sufficient to
allow you to choose a good path."

He turned to look each of his men in the face, and then, seeing that
none of them held back, he did as his dead comrade had done when leading
the first charge, and having placed his kriss between his teeth came at
the rock at a fast run, hoping to scale it rapidly.

"Steady!" whispered Tyler, seeing that Li Sung had swung his sling about
his shoulder. "Wait till they are upon us as before, and then let them
have your stone. In any case we must try to avoid a shot, for the sounds
would at once attract others from over the water."

"Makee noise not matter," exclaimed Li Sung with a shake of his head.
"De men of Rembas know dat dere am fighting, and dey sending oders to
see. Velly soon Li and Massa havee de bullets about dem."

As he spoke he pointed eagerly over the top of the wall to the river
beyond, and a glance in that direction caused Tyler to give vent to an
exclamation of dismay.

"Three more sampans," he cried in accents of alarm. "And all filled with
men. That will add thirty at least to the attacking force, and will
increase our difficulties immensely."

For the instant the same feeling of consternation as had assailed him
before came suddenly upon him; and then, as he took in the situation,
and realized the strength of the position which he and the Chinaman
held, his face brightened, and he turned to look at the seven remaining
men below with spirits as high as ever they were before.

"Of course we are cornered," he said to himself, "and we are in a
desperately tight place. But others have managed to do well under
similar circumstances, and we shall do the same. After all, I think that
we have much to be thankful for, for we might well have been drowned in
the river, and then again, what luck to have struck upon such a spot as
this! Why, fifty shall not turn us out, for after our escape from the
bore I do not mean to be easily beaten. Ah, here comes the leader! and,
foolishly for himself, he has chosen a line which I can reach. In a
minute he will be hurled to the bottom of the rock."

