With courage renewed by his reflections, Tyler stared at the pirates,
and watched as they slowly clambered up the steep face of the rock.
Unlike the occasion which had preceded this attack, he was as cool and
as collected as if he were on the _Dido_ eating his dinner amongst his
messmates, and at once checked the Chinaman's eagerness to deliver a
shot.

"Wait," said Tyler shortly. "When the boulder goes you can fire, but
till then remain behind the wall."

Panting with their exertions, and led by the man who had first rushed to
the assault, the seven pirates came clambering up the rock, their eyes
searching every likely spot above, while they wondered which of them
would be the one to sight the fugitives. Then, as they neared the summit
without a sign of their presence having been come upon, and without a
stone or boulder having been thrown, they began to doubt that they were
still there, and halted to stare at one another questioningly.

"Are the birds flown then?" demanded their leader, sitting down to rest.
"Fools that we were, not to have set a watch upon the back of this rock,
for while we have talked they have slipped away."

"Not so," shouted one of his men. "I myself strolled in that direction,
and I tell you that no living man could descend the rock on the farther
side unless possessed of a long rope. They are here, above us, and we
shall come upon them crouching in the bushes and whining for their
lives."

"Then forward!" cried the leader. "Let us make an end of them, but
remember, they are not to die here. For the trouble which they have
given us in thus climbing, for the loss of our friends, we must demand
of them a price, and they shall pay it. Before they take their last
breath they shall be sad at the thought that they did not fall in with
our wishes when first we called to them. But let us not delay. Follow
me!"

This time with kriss in hand he came clambering up the steep slope, with
eyes watching eagerly for some movement to tell him of the presence
of the fugitives. But there was not so much as the tremble of a leaf,
while not & sound broke the silence. A minute passed, and just as the
Malay was about to call for a second halt, convinced that the birds were
flown, a figure suddenly erected itself before him, and, half-hidden by
an enormous bush, reared a boulder on high. Ah! The Chinaman took aim at
his man with the utmost calmness, and then, ere the poor wretch could
spring aside, or could shout in his terror, the mass of stone caught him
on the breast and bore him backwards. A second and he was rolling and
pitching on his way to the bottom, and even while his comrades were
wondering how it had all happened, and were marvelling at the sight of
the Chinaman, the unfortunate leader came with a thud on the bank of the
river, and, rolling forward for all the world like a rabbit which had
just been shot, came to a halt with face buried in the mud and limbs
which were strangely contorted.

