Once more it looked as though the attackers would lose heart and fly
for their lives. But, emboldened by the thought that they had at length
located the enemy, they suddenly plucked up their courage and, urged on
by one of their number possessed of more spirit than his comrades, they
came panting and struggling up the steep slope, determined to reach the
lair of the Chinaman and wreak their vengeance upon him.

"A Chinaman!" shouted the one in advance. "We will swing him to the
highest branch by means of his tail of hair, and we will spend the day
and amuse ourselves by emptying our guns at his body. Fear him not,
for he has boulders alone to hit us with, and those we can avoid by
spreading out. Scatter at once, and be sure that none of you advance
directly beneath the spot."

Acting upon this advice, and warned by the fate which had so suddenly
and unexpectedly overtaken their leader, the surviving Malays at once
separated till wide intervals lay between them, and then advanced upon
the wall behind which Tyler and Li Sung were crouching, at a pace which
promised to bring them to close quarters before many seconds had passed.

"One little moment," gasped Li Sung, peering at them over the barrier.
"China boy soon stop de little game. He pick out de man who am in front,
and he send him to join him brother. Watch de sling, massa."

With deft hand and unerring eye, which showed that he had spent many
an hour in practising the use of his weapon, Li Sung stood erect and
leant over the wall. Round swung the sling till it churned the air into
a high-pitched whistle. Then, as the finger loosed one of the strings,
the band fell limply upon his wrist and hand, while the stone which had
lain in the pouch flew down the side of the rock as if it had been fired
from a gun, and, as in the former case, struck full upon the forehead of
the Malay who had taken it upon himself to lead his comrades. Like an ox
felled with the stroke of a pole-axe he collapsed upon the moss-grown
path, and then, with nothing there to retain its position, the limp and
lifeless body slid downwards, toppled over, and, gathering way as it
went, rolled over and over till its further progress was arrested by the
bank beneath.

