"We need not fear them greatly," said Tyler quietly, as he watched them
ascending, "for the rock is very steep, and we are placed at a great
advantage. Remember that we may have to fight hard for our lives later
on, and for that reason deal gently with the ammunition. I shall make
use of these boulders as long as possible."

Standing behind the barricade each selected a missile, Li Sung twirling
his sling aloft and sending stone after stone at the Malays, while
Tyler rolled huge boulders down upon them. But the pirates had learnt
their lesson, and as they came they took advantage of every bit of
available cover. Each hollow and nook held an enemy, crouching out of
range of the stones and boulders, and with eye following every movement
of the defenders. Waiting till they had need to select another missile,
the figure would spring from the patch of cover and dart to another
favourable spot higher up. And thus, with the cunning and stealth of an
Indian, they came closer and closer to the barrier, till it wanted only
a short rush to come up with it.

"Revolvers and rifles!" said Tyler, seeing that stones were of little
avail. "We shall be able to pick them off, and you will see how quickly
they will scamper to the bottom. Look! there is the man who called to
them to encourage them! He is watching you with the sling, and when you
have let the stone go he will make a rush. Now, I have covered him with
the revolver, so you can fire."

Grasping his master's meaning immediately, Li Sung slung the missile
at the Malay, and then snatched at the second revolver. As he did so
the pirate leapt to his feet, and judging that he was now sufficiently
near to reach the wall, and would be upon the enemy before another stone
could be fitted, he came directly up the slope, discarding the boulders
and rocks which lay there, and which would have afforded him cover.
Snap! The report of Tyler's weapon set the echoes ringing, while the
heavy bullet which his revolver carried hit the man plump in the chest,
bringing him to an abrupt halt. There was a shout and a shriek as the
pirate felt the blow, and then, summoning all his remaining power, he
swung his kriss back over his shoulder, and taking rapid aim at the
Chinaman above, sent the keen blade of steel hissing towards him. Next
moment he had tumbled back upon the ground, where, clutching madly
at moss and bush, he slowly slid to the bottom. As for Tyler, he had
expected the man to fall dead at once, and started back as the kriss
flew in his direction. But it was hopeless to expect to escape it, and
ere he had time to dodge to either side the point of the blade struck
upon his fore-arm, and, pressed onward by the weight of the metal,
perforated the limb.

