"First blood to the enemy," said Tyler quietly. "A flea-bite which
will do me no harm, but which will teach me to keep an eye upon their
weapons. It was quickly done, and proved an excellent shot, made under
the most unfavourable circumstances."

"It am a velly lucky escape, massa," cried Li Sung, darting to Tyler's
side and removing the kriss. "Li havee seen one fine man hit in de body,
and de blade go right through him, so dat he fallee dead. Massa one
velly quick, and if him not move one little piecee him dead too. Wait
there while China boy ties up de aim. Nothing to fear from de pirate."

Tearing a shred of linen from his coat, Li Sung rapidly applied it
as a bandage to the arm, thereby arresting the flow of blood, which
threatened to be free. Then he pointed triumphantly to the bank below,
where the remaining Malays were gathered.

"Dey velly angry," he said with a little snigger, the nearest approach
to a laugh which this son of the East would indulge in. "Dey not knowee
what dey do, and dey fear deir friends and what dey say. Velly soon Li
and de massa have to fight plenty hard."

The prospect of hard knocks and a desperate encounter seemed to please
Li Sung, for he beamed upon Tyler as though this was the happiest day
in his life. "Li havee been in nasty place before dis wid de massa, and
he knowee dat allee turn out right. Massa Tyler bring him allee de way
through de jungle, he lead Chinee boy and de Dyaks to Paddi, and den to
Sarawak with de prahus. But dat am not allee. Him save Li when de water
nearly cover him, and now him lies beside him servant and helps him to
make de Malays run."

"Then you think that we shall be hotly engaged before very long," said
Tyler, staring down at the pirates below. "It seems to me that we are
cornered, and that we shall be lucky if either of us see the _Dido_ and
Sarawak again. Not that we are going to be beaten easily, for we have a
splendid position, and will make the most of it. During the day we can
beat our enemies off, but at nighttime it will be a different matter.
Then they will creep to the top like so many snakes, and before we can
deal with them they will rush upon us. We shall have to go once the
darkness falls, and it becomes a question as to how the retreat is to be
carried out."

