"Plenty easy to creep down de rock in de dark till near de bottom," said
Li Sung thoughtfully. "De Malays climb up de hill, and we go down. Dey
not knowee, and we not knowee. Dey rush to dis wall with deir krisses
in deir hands, and massa and him servant slip away in de dark into de
jungle. Who am to stop dem?"

"A splendid idea, and one which we will follow," exclaimed Tyler with
enthusiasm. "The matter had troubled me very much, and I was wondering
what we could do, for I am sure that to remain here once night has come
will be to lose our lives. But this is a plan which will meet the case.
They will crawl here in the hope of falling suddenly upon us, and we
will slip down. If we meet, all the worse for our plan, though I fancy
that in the confusion we could make good our escape. If not, we gain our
object, and they reach this lair to find the birds gone. Pick up your
rifle, Li, and let us teach the rogues that it is death to come close to
the rock."

Determined to keep the enemy as far away as possible till evening fell,
Tyler and his companion disposed themselves upon the ground, and with
their weapons resting upon the piled-up boulders took steady aim at the
pirates. As the three boats arrived, and were drawn up on the bank, they
sent two bullets amongst the assembled natives, with the result that a
couple tumbled on their faces, while the remainder separated with cries
of indignation and surprise. But they were not permitted to enjoy more
than a moment's peace, for very shortly another shot rang out in the
still air, and a huge Malay, who seemed to occupy the post of chief,
and about whom the men had been gathered, gave vent to a shriek, and,
plunging forward on the edge of the river-bank, went splashing headlong
into the water.

"A long shot, but I gave a little elevation, and aimed for the
centre of his shoulders," said Tyler to himself. "That will give us
breathing-space. Now, Li, I am hungry, and, as we always say in England
that a man fights better when he has had some food, we will open that
bag and see what there is to eat. We can keep a watch upon those
fellows as we have our meal, and can plant a shot amongst them whenever
necessary."

