It was wonderful to see the calm manner in which the two sat down to
their meal, the Chinaman contenting himself with some rice which they
had had the forethought to have boiled before setting out on their
expedition, and Tyler directing his attention to some biscuit and meat,
which formed part of their store. Of water they had none, but that
mattered very little at the moment, for they had been chilled by their
upset in the river, and, though hot, the sun had done little more than
warm them, without inducing thirst. But the lack of something with which
to moisten their lips made retreat from the rock all the more essential,
and as they ate they discussed the matter eagerly.

"It is our only chance," said Tyler thoughtfully. "To remain here till
to-morrow will mean certain ruin, for we should be parched with thirst,
and then again, our ammunition will not last long enough. That is why I
have suggested keeping the enemy at bay now, and making good use of our
weapons. But there is a point which we have not considered. Once we are
down below, which direction are we to take? Are we to steal one of their
boats or make into the jungle?"

"The last, massa," said Li Sung. "Den, later on, we steal down upon de
bank, and we take one of de sampan and sail for Sarawak."

"And what about our orders?" demanded Tyler with some warmth. "After
coming all this way, and being almost drowned in the river, I am not
going back with my tail between my legs and with no information to give.
Not a bit of it. I shall stay near Rembas and do my best to spy upon
them. Then, if you like, I will drop down to the mouth of the river and
wait there for the expedition to arrive."

"Massa am de chief, and he say what we do," said Li Sung, with a shrug
of his ungainly shoulders and a look of resignation. "If him say dat
we go and be killed, Li havee to obey. But me not likee dis stay in de
river. Me plenty much afraid."

"Then you are a foolish fellow," exclaimed Tyler angrily, for he was
determined not to be thwarted in his attempt to learn tidings of the
pirates, and in what he considered a duty, for which he had had the
great honour to be specially selected. "If you don't like to stay, go
back by yourself, though I shall be sorry to lose you. I have firmly
made up my mind that I remain in the neighbourhood till I have satisfied
my curiosity. But watch those men below. Something seems to have upset
them."

