At once both stared eagerly over their barricade, and saw with some
concern that the pirates had collected at such a distance that they
could not suffer loss from the bullets of the defenders. And there,
grouped about the one who was in command, they stared out into the river
with their eyes fixed upon a tiny object which was approaching.

"A swift sampan, and one dat brings de orders and de news," said Li Sung
with the assurance of one who was well acquainted with the facts. "De
man who am chief in Rembas havee one of de long tubes through which de
white man lookee wid de eye, and he see allee dat havee happened. He
send to dem to say must take de Chinamen. Well, we see to dat when de
time come."

"We shall have something to say, I have no doubt," agreed Tyler, "and we
must not spare a man. It will be a case of rapid shooting and loading.
Here, let us arrange the ammunition in a handy form, so that there
will be no loss of time in sorting, and so that we can ram a charge in
without delay. Now, what is their next move?"

By now the narrow sampan which they had seen flying across the river,
propelled by a dozen lusty oarsmen, had reached the bank, and had
deposited there a Malay of forbidding appearance. That he was a man of
some consequence was evident, for they showed him every deference, and,
after listening to a short harangue which he delivered, followed him
with loud shouts towards the rock.

"He will lead them, and we shall have to fight," said Tyler with a
calmness which astonished himself. "Fire quickly, Li, and see that you
do not miss, for we want to show them that to approach the rock is
dangerous. Then they will put off the real attack till darkness has
fallen, and will aid us in our plan."

That strict orders had been received to capture the insolent foreigners
who had dared to come into the river Sarebus, and who had suffered
shipwreck there, was plainly to be seen, for now that they had a new
leader the pirates ran towards the rock with shouts of exultation, and,
unmindful of the warning which they had already received, commenced to
climb it in scattered knots and groups, evidently with the intention
of approaching the wall from many quarters and so annihilating the
defenders. But they had a couple of marksmen to contend with, for Tyler
had had sufficient practice by now to make certain of his man, while
the Chinaman's trained eye only required the steadiness which his young
leader constantly urged upon him to enable him to hit the mark on every
occasion.

