"Not a shot to be thrown away, just remember that," exclaimed Tyler
sternly as the pirates came running along the bank. "Pick out your man,
follow him for a second, and then press the trigger gently."

Almost at once his own weapon snapped, and the man who ran just behind
the leader doubled up and rolled in a heap.

"A little high," said Tyler calmly, "but otherwise straight enough. We
will see what this will do."

Once more he brought the weapon to his shoulder, and was about to press
the trigger, when the Malay at whom he aimed disappeared in a hollow
and caused him to pick out another man. But Tyler was not so easily to
be put off, and conscious that a blow at the leader would have far more
effect than one at his followers, he watched till the big Malay again
made his appearance. His rifle snapped instantly, and the pirate fell
upon his face, where he lay without a move.

"A few more like that and they will run," shouted Tyler. "Pick off those
in advance, so that their comrades may see them fall. That will make
them afraid, and they will soon hang back and long for shelter."

That his advice was good there could be no doubt, for nothing is more
demoralizing in such an engagement than for those who are attacking in
the open, and advancing up a hill, to suddenly find the lifeless bodies
of their comrades rushing past them, or to be swept away and carried
to the ground below by the weight of one tumbling upon them. At once
the prospect of a similar fate cools their ardour, and if they be not
filled with courage and determined upon victory they are apt to retire
in disorder. And so, neglecting those who clambered in rear, Tyler and
his companion fired as rapidly as possible on those who were in the
forefront, sending man after man rolling to the bottom. Then, as the
attackers clustered together on the hill-side, attracted unconsciously
by the thought of mutual protection and aid, our hero suddenly
relinquished his weapon, and, with a shout to Li Sung to do the same,
began to toss boulders down upon the enemy. Nor did he have to continue
long at the task, for very soon the pirates turned with shrill cries of
dismay and went sliding to the bottom, where they took to their heels
and did not stop till they had put a safe distance between themselves
and the defenders.

