"That will keep them quiet for a time, and if only they will remain
inactive till the darkness falls we shall be safe. Come, help me to
build up the wall again and gather a store of boulders."

Without taking the trouble to crouch, for they knew that the pirates
had seen them, Tyler and his companion set about the work, and having
accomplished it sat down to rest, waiting impatiently for the night to
come when they would put their plan to the test and do their utmost to
escape from a trap which might well prove disastrous.




CHAPTER XVII

Danger and Difficulty


Twice in succession did the collection of Malays and Dyaks who composed
the attacking force endeavour to overcome the gallant defenders of the
steep rock beside the bank of the river Sarebus. And on each occasion
the leader of the gang who had their quarters in Rembas sat at his
leisure before his hut on the opposite side of the water, and with glass
fixed to his eye watched the fighting with interest.

"They are curs," he cried at last, when the final attempt to reach the
barricade above had been defeated, "and as a punishment I swear that no
help shall come to these dogs of mine till they have these two strangers
in their hands. Are they not two only, while my men number twenty times
as many? Then they shall stay till all are killed or until they can
bring me tidings of their success. But I will send them a message to the
effect that if they allow the enemy to escape I shall vent my anger upon
them. Yes, I will warn them that the attempt must be made, and will say
that if it prove too much for them then they shall suffer."

With this resolution before him the leader of the Rembas pirates
despatched a boat to the farther bank, and with it one of his chief men,
with instructions to give his message and then return.

"You can say that no food or drink shall be sent till they have captured
these men, and that it will be better for them to die on the side of
the rock than to return here unsuccessful," said he, as the man set out
to do his bidding. "It is absurd to think that so many of my men are
defied by a couple of natives from China!"

