"A messenger," said Tyler, who caught sight of the sampan as it shot out
into the stream. "Will it recall these men, or will it bring news that
reinforcements are to come?"

"Not dat, massa," answered Li Sung with assurance, accompanying the
remark with the customary shake of his head, as if to add emphasis to
his words. "Dese pirates tink dey knowee how to fight, and de leader
over deir say dat not a man comee to help till we taken. He tell dem to
takee plenty care unless we slip away. Dat all he comee for."

"Then we shall have to be doubly cautious," said Tyler, "and I'm going
to set myself to work to think out the matter, for escape we must. In an
hour it will be dark, so that we can count upon that time in which to
make up our minds, and I think that we are not likely to be disturbed.
Unless, of course, the message which is coming to our attackers rouses
them to fury, and they throw themselves upon us again. Now, how could we
manage to get away?"

Throwing himself upon the ground he fixed his eyes upon the figures of
the enemy beneath, and watched them half listlessly while he endeavoured
to find a means whereby he and Li Sung could slip from their retreat and
get safely away.

"It must be done," he kept murmuring to himself. "For to-day this has
been the very best of havens, but to-morrow it will be untenable, for
thirst will be our greatest enemy, and up here we have no means of
satisfying it. So leave we must, at the risk of our lives. By Jove!"

"Massa keepee plenty quiet," cried Li Sung at this moment, suddenly
pointing to the bank beneath. "De messenger havee come, and Li tink dat
some little game be played. What for dey light de torches?"

He asked the question with a puzzled expression on his face, and
pointed again with a long lean finger to some figures which could be
seen flitting about amongst the jungle. That they were the pirates was
perfectly clear, though for what reason they ran hither and thither,
while some of their number advanced with flaring bundles of some
material in their arms, was a matter of some difficulty to determine.

