"I have it!" exclaimed Tyler at last, having watched them carefully.
"They find that we are prepared to make a fight of it, and as you have
said, the message from the other side has made them determined to try
again before the darkness falls. They know that we should shoot them
down when they had gained the rock, and that we have boulders ready for
them, so they have thought of another way of beating us. Some fellow
amongst them has his wits about him, for he has pointed out to them that
though there is a clear space round this rock, yet bushes crop out from
one side almost to the edge of the jungle which surrounds us. Those same
bushes are continuous with the ones by which the rock is clothed, and
there are sufficient here to roast us. Do you follow now?"

"And de men over deir?" demanded Li Sung thoughtfully, after having
maintained silence for more than a minute as he puzzled over the matter.

"They have been cutting and collecting reeds and long, dry grass. There
is no difficulty about that, for beyond a day's rain we have had very
hot weather of late, and everything is dry. They have made the grass
and reeds into bundles, and you can see that they are running forward
with them and are tossing them down in a line from the jungle. It will
require very few indeed to reach the belt of dry bushes which joins
those upon the rock, and then--"

Tyler did not finish the sentence, but began to reach for his rifle, and
place a pile of ammunition close to his hand.

"We must stop them," he said sternly, "or else we shall be roasted and
smoked like pigs. Get your weapon, Li, and let them know that we can
reach them; for I tell you that if the bushes here are set alight this
place will be impossible. The flames will flare all round it, and there
are sufficient leaves about to cause the densest of smoke, which would
choke us."

That he had not overstated the case was abundantly clear to the wily
Chinaman, and once the latter's cunning mind had grasped the meaning
of the movement below, and he had become alive to the danger of the
situation, he set about the defence of the rock with alacrity. Snatching
at his rifle, he rested it upon a boulder, and peered amongst the
stones, awaiting an opportunity for a shot. As for Tyler, his weapon
spoke out almost instantly, and one of the dusky figures which was
loaded with a bundle of reeds fell forward into the jungle, while those
who were near at hand ran to a place of shelter with a howl of dismay.

