"One," said Tyler quietly, replacing the charge. "I can see that those
fellows are scared, and that they fear our guns. We have shown them that
when we fire we hit the mark as a rule, and it will be disconcerting
to them to discover that we have them still in range. However, I have
little doubt that one of their number will pluck up courage before very
long, and will make a dash forward. In that case we shall be unable to
stop him."

For half an hour the pirates hidden below in the jungle, or watching
the rock from a safe distance on the bank of the river, made no further
movement. Then a flaring light suddenly appeared amongst the trees,
attracting the attention of the defenders of the rock and occupying all
their thoughts.

"Some fellow about to make a rush," thought Tyler. "Keep your eye on
him, Li, and fire when you see him run. Ah, there he is moving, but only
to one side! In a few moments he will make up his mind to risk it, and
then there will be a rush, and we shall have to do as well as we can."

Twice or three times was the blazing mass moved to a different part of
the jungle, on each occasion causing alarm to Tyler and his companion,
and making them think that the moment had arrived when the man who had
charge of it would summon all his courage, and, determined to risk the
bullets of the defenders, would dash out into the open, with the object
of crossing the narrow space which stretched between the jungle and the
straggling line of bushes which extended from the base of the rock. With
rifles at their shoulders, and eyes glued to the sights, they watched,
ready to pull the triggers the instant they sighted the man. Then of
a sudden each gave vent to a startled cry, and, swinging round to the
left, emptied their weapons at the retreating figure of a man who had
run out from an entirely different point, and, safe in the thought that
the attention of the defenders was occupied in another direction, had
dashed at the bushes and flung a mass of blazing reeds upon them.

