"Cleverly done, and the man deserves to escape," cried Tyler, seeing
that both he and Li Sung had missed the mark. "It was an artful ruse,
and we were taken in. It just shows that they have a fellow down there
who has sharp wits, for by attracting our notice to one part of the
jungle they made the task of setting the bush on fire possible. But what
are we to do? Sit still and be roasted or smothered by the flames and
smoke, or descend the rock and make a fight of it?"

"That no savee us, massa," exclaimed Li Sung. "We dead all de same, and
de pirate takee de head. Li say stay here a little bittee and see which
way de wind blow. P'r'aps it send de fire along de rock and not reach
us."

"There is no use in thinking that that will happen," replied Tyler, "for
there is hardly any breeze just now, and once well alight the bushes
will burn up in this direction. What about the top? Surely by hanging
over the other side we might escape the heat and smoke."

As he spoke he turned and stared at the summit of the rock, which cut
clear and sharp across the sky, showing a thin ridge on the farther side
of which the mass fell away abruptly, forming a slope which was so
precipitous that no one could hope to retain a footing.

"If we could get over there we should be safe for a time," he said to
himself, "and the enemy could not reach us with the poor muskets which
they possess. We will wait and see how the fire goes, and then, if
necessary, we will retreat to the top. Now how could we manage to retain
a position there for a time? Our strength would soon give way if we had
to cling with our hands."

Unconsciously he asked the question aloud, and as if it had been
addressed to him the cunning Chinaman turned and answered it without the
slightest delay.

"Massa havee saved de China boy more dan once," he said in grateful
tones. "Him catchee Li Sung by de coat when him almost smothered wid de
water, and now him show how both keep away from de fire. Li say dat we
hang on de oder side easy. We take de cloth from de waist and make him
into a loop. Den we put de leg into him and sit dere easy till de flames
havee gone. He, he, he! We not catched yet by a velly long way."

