The prospect of dangling over the steep cliff seemed to afford this
son of the East the greatest satisfaction, for again he beamed upon
his young leader, while he whipped the cloth from about his waist, and
with a deft twist fashioned it into a loop. At the opposite end he
formed another, and then twisted the material on itself till it had the
appearance of a rope.

"Plenty fine and strong," he said, holding it up with pride. "De one end
hang on a rock or de stump of a bush, and de oder for de leg."

"I believe you have thought of the very thing," exclaimed Tyler in
delight. "With a sling like that we could sit all day long and never
tire. We will wait till the heat gets too great for us and then we will
retire. Get hold of your share of the ammunition and food while I take
mine. Now, how is the bonfire going."

He almost laughed as he spoke, but a moment later his face wore a
serious expression, for though but little time had elapsed since the man
below had so daringly set fire to the bushes, yet the hot sun overhead
had dried the wood till it was like tinder, and scarcely had it felt
the flame than it flared in all directions. Then, as if there had been
a train of powder laid beneath, the conflagration spread almost as fast
as a man could run, for all the world like the veldt fires in Africa,
and, sweeping along the straggling line, quickly reached the base of the
rock. And here, with abundant material before it upon which to vent its
power, the flame spread to either hand, and thence came marching up the
steep rock, fanned by a gentle breeze from the river. Like an army in
straggling array it swept the rock before it, and halting here, falling
back there for an instant as it met with a bush of more succulent wood,
which defied its power on account of its moisture, it came staggering
upwards, ever upwards, roaring as it went, and sending forth dense
masses of blinding, hot smoke. Very quickly the bushes which grew just
below the retreat in which Tyler and the Chinaman had taken up their
station were singed and frizzled by the heat, while they themselves were
driven backwards. A minute and they were racing up the steep slope,
madly eager to escape from the fire and get to a safe distance.

