"Here is a clear spot with only one strong bush growing," gasped Tyler,
as they reached the summit, halting at a spot which was clear and bare
of growth save for a solitary bush. "Out with your knife, Li, and hack
it down. That's the way. Leave enough to fasten our slings to."

Desperately and in all haste did the Chinaman carry out the order, for a
hot wave fanned his cheek, and a cloud of smoke and sparks told him that
he had no time for delay. In a few minutes, therefore, he had lopped off
the greater part of the bush, leaving the base of it alone. And to this,
thrusting their slings over the gnarled and twisted root till they were
close to the ground, did the two suspend their weight, hoping that it
would not fail them and send them tumbling to the ground beneath.

Meanwhile the pirates below had watched with eager eyes as the fire
advanced, and set up a babel of discordant shouts as they saw the two
figures above forced to retreat. With loud and discordant yells they
followed their course to the summit of the rock, and then, as they
watched and noted the methodical way in which the bush was lopped off
and the slings attached, a doubt, and fear that after all they were to
be beaten in this, their final attempt, assailed them. With a shout of
indignation and annoyance they raced through the jungle to the back of
the rock, and, arrived there, stared up at Tyler and Li Sung, who swung
easily at their posts, their weight supported by the slings, while they
prevented their bodies from swaying too much by grasping the edge of
the rock with their fingers. Instantly a fusillade was opened in their
direction, the bullets for the most part falling short, or pattering
harmlessly against the rock. A few, however, struck with resounding
thuds, warning Tyler that a blow from one, while it would not penetrate
perhaps, would be likely to stun the one who was hit should it happen to
come in contact with his head.

"We must put a stop to that game," he said suddenly. "They seem to have
forgotten that we, too, are armed, and we must remind them. Just place
your hand on my shoulder to steady me, and I will give them a shot.
That's the way. Now I can lift my rifle without swinging round and
running the risk of toppling over."

