That the precaution was very necessary both could see, for, suspended
as they were, with one leg thrust through the sling till the latter
gripped them about the thigh, the greater part of their weight was
above the point of support, and had it not been for the grip which each
had obtained on the edge of the rock they would have run the danger
of capsizing and slipping from the sling. It was a matter of some
difficulty, therefore, to make use of a weapon, but with Li to help
him Tyler contrived to get his rifle to his shoulder. Then he calmly
selected the nearest of the pirates, and just as the latter was about to
fire at him, he pressed the trigger and sent his bullet into the man.

"See how they scamper away," he cried with a laugh, as the Malays took
to their heels. "We shall not be troubled again by their firing, I
fancy, and very soon darkness will hide them from our view. I suppose
that it is not possible to clamber down this side, for it has suddenly
struck me that the rock will be very hot on the farther slope."

Both looked well about them before deciding upon the matter, and
searched the steep face upon which they hung with the hope that they
would be able to discover some ledge, a few projections perhaps, which
would afford a means by which they would be able to reach the ground
below. But a goat could not have hoped to retain a footing there, for
the rock might very well have been cut with a knife, so smooth and
unbroken was its surface, and so precipitous was its slope. Therefore
both gave up the idea, and at once prepared to clamber over the ridge
once more.

"We have been here a quarter of an hour, and at the rate at which the
flames were advancing I imagine that the fire will have burnt itself
out by now," said Tyler, as he attempted to peer over the top. "How
lucky for us that we had this place to retreat to, and that the edge
of the rock kept the heat and smoke away! But for that we should have
been stifled, and should have rolled in a helpless condition to the
bank below. But I fancy that there is very little smoke now, and when I
have waited ten minutes longer I shall hoist myself up, and see what is
happening. After that we can sit on the very top and wait for the rock
to cool."

