The time he had mentioned having at length passed, Tyler hoisted himself
with all gentleness by means of the sling, and peered over the summit
of the ridge, to find that the farther side had been swept clear of all
bushes, and lay blackened and smoking below him. Here and there a tiny
flame still existed, feeding upon the underwood beneath some mass of
vegetation which had been of large proportions. But for the most part
the fire was gone, while the smoke was disappearing every minute. Of the
pirates there was no sign at first, but as Tyler's head appeared over
the top, they emerged from the edge of the jungle and set up a shout of
defiance.

"Aloft there!" called out the one who had now assumed the leadership;
"do not think that you will escape us, for we are determined to capture
you. Indeed, our lives are forfeited if we fail to do so. Up to this you
have kept us at bay, for your guns are good, and can reach farther than
ours, while the boulders and rocks protect you. But men can climb in the
dark, and seeing that we cannot drive you to submission by means of a
fire, we will close upon you in the night. Think and dream of that. If
you lie down and sleep, or sit there watchful as a hawk, the end will
still be the same, for we shall creep silently upon you. When you feel
most secure we shall lay our hands upon you, and then, my friends, a
time awaits you in Rembas. We hear that the men of Sarawak are coming
up, and since that is the case we will kill you both with certain
ceremonies, so that luck may come to us. I who am one of the sea Dyaks
swear that this shall be your fate."

With a defiant wave of his hand the man disappeared in the forest, and
though Tyler stared after him, and watched the intervals between the
trees, he could see no one else. Then he turned to Li Sung to gather the
man's meaning, and afterwards directed his gaze to the river.

"Evidently they mean to cut off escape in that direction," he said, "for
one of their sampans is taking up a position off the bank, and will lie
there during the night, moving slowly backwards and forwards. Perhaps
they expect us to steal down and capture one of their boats, but they
will be mistaken. And that reminds me. Come up, Li Sung, and point out
to me the spot where we hid the craft in which we entered the river."

