It wanted but a few seconds to enable the active Chinee to come to his
master's side, and at once he swung to the right and pointed eagerly to
the edge of the rock.

"Allee rightee," he exclaimed in a whisper. "De pirate below not find
him for sure, and de fire not go dat way. Massa can see dat dere am no
bushes till de ones dat hidee de boat, so allee velly fine. We runnee
away in him."

"Yes, and the sooner the better," said Tyler with unusual decision. "We
have to go. That is perfectly clear, for we shall be killed or starved
to death if we remain. Very well, then the question follows as to when
we shall go. Shall it be at once, when the darkness has fallen, or shall
it be during the night? My vote is given for an instant start, for
otherwise the pirates will discover the boat as they creep this way;
and then, again, they will rush us as we are preparing to leave. Better
go as soon as the night comes, so as to get away before they can have
surrounded the rock."

"And massa will choose de river and de boat?" asked Li Sung.

"Yes, the jungle is out of the question. It will be filled with scouts,
who will be at points all round the edge of the clearing."

"Den you say dat we sneak to de sampan and out into de river?"

"Yes, Li, but not at once. You may be sure that those fellows are
watching all round, and I think that to attempt to embark opposite here
will end in discovery. If we go to the right, or strike into the jungle
behind, the same will happen."

"Den massa says go de oder way?" demanded Li in amazement. "He say go
where all de pirates am now, and where dey arrive to attack us?"

The proposition was, to say the least of it, a startling one, and
yet Tyler was not inclined to relinquish it. For he had had long to
think the matter over, and as he sat there looking down through the
semi-darkness which had now covered the land, he felt sure that an
attempt to leave the rock would be suspected. Indeed it was more
than likely that the threat which the Dyak leader had shouted to him
was merely meant to throw dust in his eyes, to make him think that an
attempt would be made to assault during the night. Instead of doing
that, however, the pirates would probably at once take up commanding
positions, and then, in the belief that the two Chinamen would descend
and slip into the darkness, would keep their eyes alert and make every
effort to take them. Would they think to guard every spot alike? No. As
Tyler considered the point he felt sure that that part of the forest
where they were at that moment would be deserted, and that it was by
that path that they must escape.

