Sweeping the ground before him with his hands ere he ventured to take
a step in advance, Tyler at length reached the foot of the rock, and
at once crept into the bushes which, owing to the fact that they were
growing far to one side, had escaped the conflagration. Ah, there was
the light river-boat! and in a trice the two silent figures were bearing
it away on their shoulders. Turning to that part of the bank which had
been occupied by the enemy they stole along in that direction, their
feet buried in the hot ashes left by the fire, which effectually masked
any sounds which might have been made. Soon a belt of trees barred their
progress, and at once dropping the boat they grasped it with both hands
and bore it along dangling at arm's-length. A hundred yards were covered
in absolute silence, and both were beginning to think that fortune had
befriended them and that freedom was before them, when Tyler gave vent
to a startled cry, and of a sudden, as if the ground had been cut from
beneath his feet, disappeared from view.

"Quick, massa! Where am you?" demanded Li Sung eagerly, while a shout
in the forest told that Tyler's cry had been heard. "You speakee plenty
quick, and Li comee to helpee you."

"I'm down below in a hole of some sort," answered Tyler swiftly,
picking himself up and feeling about in the darkness. "I have got into a
trap of some sort, for I can feel a number of pointed bamboos all about
me, and was lucky to miss falling upon them and being spiked. Lean down
and haul me up quickly. Now up with the boat again and run. This way to
the river!"

Realizing the plight into which his master had fallen, Li Sung no sooner
heard what had happened than he threw himself upon his face at the edge
of the yawning pit into which Tyler had tumbled, and, stretching out a
hand, rapidly hoisted the latter out. Then both grasped the boat once
more and set off for the river at the fastest pace. As for the pirates,
they set the jungle ringing with their shouts, and, uncertain what had
happened, for the trap had not been of their setting, but had been
prepared for some old engagement now long forgotten, they rushed hither
and thither, calling to one another to tell them where the enemy were.

