"Into the water with her, and on board," said Tyler as they reached the
bank of the river and waded in. "Now, have you a paddle? Then let every
stroke tell."

There was no need for explanation, for both knew that they must pull
for their lives. Kneeling, therefore, in the bottom of the boat, they
each grasped a paddle with both hands and thrust the blade deep into the
river. Then the surface swirled behind them, the craft gathered way, and
ere a minute had passed they were shooting along beneath the overhanging
branches.

"Keep where we are," gasped Tyler as he laboured at his paddle. "It is
pitch dark in here, while outside the sharp eyes of the natives would
pick us out. Keep a good look-out, and be ready to push her off in case
we run into the bank."

That the latter was a likely occurrence was to be expected, for
beneath the leafy avenue even in brilliant daylight all was sombre and
clouded with gloom, while now that darkness had fallen and the sun had
disappeared the tunnel under the trees presented not a ray, and indeed
was buried in such obscurity that the two fugitives felt as though
hemmed in by it, as though they could actually feel the darkness which
surrounded them. But what could they do? Emerge into the open, so as to
escape the risk of plunging into the trunk of a tree or running aground?
That would be madness, for, as Tyler had observed, the night outside was
not so black that the eyes of the Malays and sea Dyaks would fail to
pierce it. And once they caught even the faintest glimpse of the flying
boat, a suspicion even that it was paddling in that direction would
bring them howling after it, and then the fate of the two Chinamen would
be sealed. Yes, in an instant Tyler realized their precarious position;
and though for the moment he considered whether it would not be better
to halt where they were and lie still beneath the trees, he dismissed
the idea next second, feeling that were they to do so the pirates would
soon surround the spot, and, confident that they had cut off escape,
would remain patiently till morning came and allowed them to surge down
upon their daring enemies. Forward, therefore, and at all speed, was the
order, and, reckless of the consequences, they plunged their paddles
still deeper into the water till the bows of the tiny river-boat hissed
against the stream, and sent the foam scudding on either side.

