Hark! A shout, louder and more piercing than any which had preceded it,
suddenly burst from the forest behind them, while the babel of voices
came to an abrupt end. Then the cry was repeated, and ere a second had
passed an answering hail came from up and down the river. Almost at the
same moment the prow of the river-boat dashed into a pile of drift-wood,
and, running forward till half her length was piled upon it, came to a
halt, stranded there beneath the tunnel of trees.

"Hop out and float her again," whispered Tyler calmly. "Now stand still
and listen. You heard the hail? Then did you catch those which answered
it?"

"Yes, massa. A shout came from up de river, and anoder from down below.
We am caught. We am prisoner at last, and when de day comee again poor
Li and him massa die. Dey lose de head, and when de men comee from
Sarawak and kill de pirate dey find dem slung to de back of de Dyaks."

Many a time, no doubt, had the humble Chinee seen men of the race which
inhabited Borneo setting out upon an expedition to levy war upon their
neighbours, and time and again had he observed the fact that all, or
nearly all, of the warriors carried the heads of former victims slung to
their girdles, for that was their custom. No wonder, therefore, as the
prospect of imprisonment conjured up the scene and brought it afresh to
his memory, that he shivered there, and, seeing that the end seemed so
near, thought only of the worst. But Tyler also had heard of the custom,
and indeed had even seen it with his own eyes. However, he was not the
lad to be so easily frightened, and moreover he recognized the fact
that life was sweet, and that to retain it now all his thoughts must be
directed to escape, and not to the consequences of capture.

"Silence!" he exclaimed in low but commanding tones, the firmness of
which caused the Chinaman to suddenly cease his whining. "We are not
caught yet, and even if we are, what will it matter to either of us if
our heads are taken and carried about, for we shall be dead? Don't be
foolish, for, as I have said, we are not taken yet. There is a saying
amongst my people which runs: 'First catch your bird, then cook him'.
Let the pirates lay hands on us, then, and it will be time to moan about
our fate. For the present it is our work to get away from them, and for
my part I mean to escape whatever the difficulties. Now, get hold of the
bows and lift. That's the way. Turn to the left and scramble into the
jungle."

