Abashed by the lecture which he had received, and encouraged by the
bravery and calmness shown by his leader, Li Sung obediently carried out
the order, and, lifting the head of the boat, carried it towards the
bank. Tyler picked up the stern, and together they bore their craft into
the jungle close at hand, and deposited it silently there.

"They shall have their patience tried," he said, as he threw himself
upon the ground. "No doubt that shout warned men who were watching up
and down the river, and now that they have been put on their guard the
others will embark and will scour every foot of the water. If we had
stayed on the drift-wood we should have been discovered, for they will
search with torches to help them. Now we are hidden again, and can wait
till the noise and the keenness of the hunt have died down."

"Hush, massa! Li hear someting, and him tink he see a light too."

Whispering the words the faithful fellow stretched forth a warning hand
and touched Tyler on the sleeve. Then both stared through the jungle,
and made sure that they could hear faint sounds, as of someone paddling,
approaching close to them. As for the light, at first it was difficult
to determine whether Li Sung had been drawing on his imagination, or
whether he had actually seen one. But presently a dull reflection on the
water as it rippled beneath the trees attracted their attention, and
they became aware of the fact that a distant flare, which was all but
hidden by the leaves, was illuminating the stream before them.

"Searching the part beneath the boughs," whispered Tyler; "and over
there are other torches. Lie still for your life, and do not make a
sound. But first get hold of your rifle."

Instantly each swung his weapon to the front, and brought the butt to
his shoulder. Then, prepared to fire if occasion should call for it,
they lay still as ghosts amongst the bushes, peering at the enemy.
It was a strange scene to look upon, and to Tyler as he lay there it
brought back memories of many a jolly day at home. For here was a long,
narrow native boat, drifting slowly down beneath the boughs, with two
men to send it along with an occasional stroke, while some twenty
others, all with the scantiest of clothing and with weapons bared, stood
or kneeled up and stared at the leaves, into the trees, and amongst the
bushes which lined the bank, hoping, with the aid of the light cast
from a torch which was thrust into a bed of clay in the bows, that they
would be able to find a trace of the fugitives for whom they sought.
Uncanny though the scene was, and in spite of the fact that his life
was at stake, Tyler's thoughts flew involuntarily to a day of days
which he had spent not so long ago with his school comrades. There was
a regatta, and at its end the boats had rowed in procession through the
darkness, sending up fireworks, while the majority of the crew stood as
well as the craft would permit and called loudly to their friends upon
the bank. At the head of each of the craft had smoked and flared a torch
of pine-wood which served to lighten the scene. How similar it had been
to this at which he was now looking! For a moment he almost forgot the
circumstances as he recalled old friends, comrades in the days when he
was a lad at school, before the _Dido_ had been thought of. Then with a
start he remembered his position at that moment, and at once his hand
tightened upon the stock of his weapon, while the fingers of his other
hand felt for the revolver which was thrust in his belt.

