"If they find us, fire the rifle, then give them a few shots with the
revolver and fly. But we must take the boat, and must embark within a
few seconds."

He whispered the words in his companion's ear, and then watched to see
him nod. A second later the native boat drew opposite, and both lay
as if glued to the ground, scarcely daring to breathe lest the sound
should be heard. Then with feelings of relief they noted that the craft
was gradually passing beyond them, and were preparing to turn and
congratulate themselves on their good fortune, when one of the natives
gave vent to a cry of astonishment, while the boat came to a sudden halt.

"Aground!" cried the man who was stationed in the bows, at once
springing over the side; "and--do my eyes deceive me, or is this the
mark of a second boat, perhaps the one in which the Chinamen escaped?
Remember, comrades, we know that it was by that means that they left us,
for they had hidden the craft which brought them here, and their guns
prevented us from finding her. What have you others to say?"

He stood aside while his comrades splashed in the water and waded
towards him. Then the torch was snatched from its support and brought to
the spot, over which all bent eagerly.

As for Tyler and Li Sung, they almost trembled with apprehension, and,
believing that they were about to be discovered, brought their weapons
to bear upon the gathering of natives, and made ready to discharge them
and then run for their lives.

"It is your fancy, comrade," at length cried one of the pirates. "The
bows of our boat crashed upon the drift-wood here, as you can see
for yourself, for there is a deep furrow. Then you sprang overboard,
lightening the load and causing her to move again. There is nothing in
these signs, and I therefore urge you to press on. Remember, all of
you, that our lives are forfeit if the day dawns and still finds us
unsuccessful. Push on then, and let us not delay."

"As you will," grumbled the one who had at first raised the question,
and who had spent the time in staring into the jungle towards the spot
where Tyler lay. "Only if we lose them on account of the fact that you
will not take my warning, then it will be sad for all of us. For me,
Rembas shall not see me again, for to return would be to die."

