"Then, as we all love the lives which we lead, and desire to go back to
our homes, let us push on in all haste," cried his comrade. "Then shall
we be more sure of coming upon these rascals."

With a heave they lifted the craft from the obstruction and placed her
in deep water. Then they sprang aboard, and before the fugitives could
believe their eyes, their enemies were sweeping down the stream, only
the reflection of the light being there to show that they actually
existed.

"We will let them tire of the search," said Tyler, with a big sigh of
relief, "and then we will take to the water ourselves and make for the
lower reaches. For the present we will lie still and listen, for others
may come this way."

And so with ears straining for sounds which would warn them of the near
presence of the enemy, and with all their senses alert, they waited in
the forest for some three hours or more, not daring to stir from their
hiding-place. Then, judging that the keenness of the search was over
and that they might venture to take to the river, they crept from the
jungle, lifted their boat into the stream, and embarked. A thrust of
the foot and she was afloat, and a stroke of the paddle directed her
on her way. Then, with the current to carry them, they let her drift
silently through the night, being careful, however, to keep her still
beneath the overhanging boughs. At length the latter came to an end, and
the open river was before them. At once they took to their paddles, and
were urging their craft into the centre of the Sarebus when a long, dark
object which had been lying in close to the bank shot out behind them
and came racing in their wake. Then a dusky figure in the front grasped
at a pole, at the end of which was attached a hook with which it was the
custom of the pirates of Borneo to tear their enemies from their prahus,
and, thrusting it out into the night, made a dash at the unconscious
figure of the rearmost of the two at the paddles. It caught; the hook
passed beneath his arm and became entangled in his clothing.

