"Back!" shouted the pirate. "Hold on your paddles!"

There was a startled cry of surprise, the guttural exclamation of a
Chinaman, and ere Tyler had time to think, he was over the side and
being dragged into the enemy's boat. Down came the shaft of the pole
upon his head, rendering him unconscious of the roughness with which he
was handled. Thrust here and there, hauled this way and that, he was at
length pushed into the stern and left to lie there, while the pirates
turned their attention to the remaining fugitive. But of him there was
not a sign. The darkness or the river had swallowed him up.




CHAPTER XVIII

A Narrow Escape


Swift indeed had been the misfortune which had fallen on Tyler and
his comrade as they escaped down the river Sarebus. So sudden and
unexpected, in fact, that the former hardly realized that he had been
caught by means of some instrument and was being dragged through the
water, while the boat in which he had been kneeling, plying his paddle
with all his might, swept on and away from him, urged by the powerful
arm of the Chinaman. As for the latter, until the shout of the pirate
who wielded the long pole and hook broke on his ear, he had no suspicion
that the enemy was at hand, for the hiss of the water as it surged
against the prow drowned all other sounds. But the sudden call caused
him to sit upright with a jerk and turn his head, only to perceive the
figure of his young master disappearing in the darkness. A moment later
he had shot away from the pursuers, and, turning the craft with a dip of
the paddle, lay still upon the surface, while the latter, still plying
their oars, swept away in advance, searching there for the second of the
gallant Chinamen who had caused them so much suffering.

Ten minutes later Tyler regained consciousness, and would have started
to his feet had not a naked foot pressed him to the floor.

"What has happened?" he demanded in bewildered tones. "We were running
down-stream, and it began to look as though we were going to give those
fellows the slip. Then--Li Sung, you may not know it, but you are
standing on my chest, which is not very comfortable. Just take your
foot away and allow me to sit up."

