"Lie still, you dog!" was the answer, in a language which he did not
understand, but which he knew must be Dyak. "Lie quiet where you are, I
say, and stir not if you value your comfort. Would you warn your comrade
then? That will silence you."

The native who had charge of the prisoner lifted his paddle and hit at
the prostrate figure lying beneath him in the darkness. But, fortunately
for the latter, the blow failed to reach the mark, and, striking the
bottom of the boat within an inch of his head, almost dashed a hole
through the wood-work. But it had the desired effect, for Tyler at
once realized his position and held his tongue, while the recollection
of what had happened came to him like a flash in spite of his dizzy
condition.

"I remember now," he said to himself with something approaching a groan.
"A hook caught me under the arm, and before I could make out what was
up, I was splashing in the water and was being dragged into another
boat. Then some fellow caught me a crack over the head, and--by Jove!
how sore I am! They must have pulled me about and kicked me pretty
savagely, for I feel as though every bone in my body were broken. And
I'm a prisoner."

The thought set him wondering what would be his fate, though that was a
question which required little answering. Then he began to think of Li
Sung, and with a feeling of gladness he realized that the Chinaman had
made good his escape.

"Then, after all, there may be some chance for me," he said to himself.
"Captain Keppel and the Rajah of Sarawak were to put in an appearance at
the mouth of the river on this date, and were to await our report there.
If Li has got clear away he will, no doubt, lie up in some quiet spot
and think the matter out. Then he will see that he can do no good alone,
and he will at once set his face down-stream, and will row for all he
is worth. The tide will help him, and by the time the night comes again
he will be at the rendezvous. Then the anchors will be raised, and the
schooners will sail up with the flood, and may, perhaps, be here by the
following evening. By then I shall be--"

