Once more he broke off suddenly, realizing with a feeling akin to
despair that he would be dead, for was it likely that the pirates would
keep him a captive for long?

"Hardly," whispered Tyler to himself. "They will be angry, and men who
are in that condition do not pause and allow time to keep them from
their revenge. To-day, within a few hours, they will commence to torture
me, and then all will be over, and Li will have had his journey for
nothing, while I shall be another of the victims to be added to the long
list already set down to the brutality of these pirates."

The conviction was not a very cheerful one, and for long it occupied
our hero's thoughts to the exclusion of all others. And all the while,
as he lay there prostrate on the floor of the boat, with throbbing head
and limbs which ached in every part, the native who stood guard over him
still rested a naked foot heavily on his chest, while ever and anon he
turned his eyes from the dark surface of the river to the spot where his
prisoner lay.

"One of the dogs at least is in our power," he kept saying to himself,
"and when the day comes, and the sun sails up to the sky, the second
will come beneath our eyes. Then we shall return to Rembas in great
favour, and our comrades will speak well of us. And afterwards there
shall be a feast, when our prisoners shall afford us some amusement. And
supposing the other dog escapes?"

The question set him wondering what would be their reception at Rembas,
and he was bound to confess to himself that the chief who had sent them
out to make the captures would have something to say.

"He will scowl at us, and call us cowards and dogs," said the native.
"But he will do us no evil, for have we not been partially successful?
For that reason he will talk, and then he will forgive. But we shall
have to incur the laughter of our comrades."

Once more the man lapsed into silence, while the boat sped on its
course. But nowhere was there a sign of Li Sung, though they searched
every foot of that portion of the river, and shouted a warning to their
comrades who had taken up their posts above and below, in the hope of
capturing the fugitives as they passed. Then, slowly at first, and later
with the same swiftness with which it was wont to leave the earth, the
day came full upon them, and they could see for miles along the surface.

