"Not a boat in sight, comrades," said the leader, the native who had
charge of Tyler. "One of the men we have with us, but where is the
other? Has anyone seen or heard aught of him?"

He looked round at his crew with questioning eyes, and, hearing no
response, spoke to them again.

"Then what are we to do?" he demanded fiercely. "You have all heard
what our chief has promised to do to us if we who were so many returned
unsuccessful. Well, we are that. We have but one captive, while the
second is at large. Shall we return at once, or will it meet your views
if we kill this dog who lies beneath my foot, and then sail for the
lower reaches? For myself, I fear to enter Rembas again, for the thought
that our companions will jeer at me is worse than the fear of death."

"And with us also," cried his companions. "We have fought hard, and are
weary. But rather than go now to our homes to rest, we will row on if to
return is to mean trouble with those who remained behind."

"It was a bad day for all of us when we were chosen for the duty," burst
in another when his comrades had done and there was silence in the boat;
"but I fail to see why we should fear to return to Rembas. Tell me, my
friends, who can say where the second of the Chinamen has got to? Is
there a man here who set eyes on him or on his boat after we captured
the fool who lies at the bottom of our own craft?"

The Dyak, a shrivelled-up and aged man, peered at each one of the
crew in turn, his beady eyes passing their faces one by one without
discovering an answer.

"No one responds," he went on with a cunning smile. "Then can our
brothers in Rembas tell more? Can they say that he has escaped simply
because we have not laid hands upon him? Ye are children, who need a man
of my years and experience to nurse you. Listen to me, and say whether
this will suit our case. We were told off for this matter, and the fates
willed it that we should meet with great trouble; for how were we to
guess that these Chinese dogs would prove so cunning? And how could we
foretell the fact that the two who were caught by the bore would be
armed with guns, good guns, mark you, my brothers, which shot better
than our own? Others would have found the task impossible, but we were
not to be so easily beaten, and though weary we clung to our ground.
Then fortune came our way, and we captured one of the dogs, while with
a blow of the pole to which the hook is attached the boat in which they
rowed was sent to the bottom, with a big hole through the boards. Tell
me, does not the stream on the river Sarebus run fast, and are not men
easily drowned in its waters? Then that is the fate which has befallen
the second of the Chinamen. He is dead, and by to-night the body will
be washing out to sea, there to satisfy the mouths of the sharks which
keep watch there. It is all plain and simple, and those at Rembas will
recognize the truth of the story we tell."

