With another cunning glance the man took his seat, and, dipping his
paddle into the stream, turned the head of the boat towards the distant
town of Rembas.

"Come," he continued persuasively, "believe what I say, and agree to
tell the tale as I have told it. And recollect that we have with us one
prisoner who will help to make us welcome."

For some little time the others, who sat or kneeled in the boat, looked
at one another doubtfully, while they discussed the matter in low tones.
Then they began to see that their comrade had pointed out the only path
which they could take, and on considering it they saw that the tale was
a likely one.

"And besides," said the man who had had the post in the bows, "I
remember that as I thrust a second time at the figure of the man who
still remained to be taken, the hook struck heavily against the craft,
and may well have capsized it or battered a hole in the boards. Yes, the
tale is good, and we should agree to it."

And so, after a deal of discussion and eager conversation, the head of
the boat was turned again to Rembas, for the stream had swung her round.
Then the paddles dipped in the water, and very soon they were at their
journey's end.

"Rise! The chief awaits you!"

The words were shouted in Tyler's ear, while his custodian kicked him
savagely in the ribs. Then signs were made that he was to mount the
slope which led to a formidable-looking stockade, and was to enter the
gate which stood wide open.

"Come," shrieked the man, angered at the delay which had occurred in the
carrying out of his orders, "stir yourself and be quick, or I will find
something better and more persuasive than a foot. Here, stand on your
legs!"

With that he clutched at Tyler's clothing and swung him over the gunwale
of the boat and on to the ground beside the edge of the water. Then two
others came to his aid, and in a moment they had set him upon his feet
and had given him a push in the direction in which he was to go. But, to
their amazement, the prisoner collapsed at once, and fell heavily upon
his face.

