The plan seemed to be a good one, and as Tyler had thought it out in the
darkness, and had sought for a good excuse for his weakness, the wound
produced by the kriss which had struck him in the arm occurred to him,
and he had at once commenced to tear the bandage from it.

"That will allow the wound to bleed freely for a time and to stain my
clothing," he said to himself. "I am wet from head to foot, so that a
little blood will spread and look like a lot, and so mislead them. Yes,
when the day comes I shall pretend to be almost on the point of death,
and shall be incapable of standing."

"See!" cried the man again, drawing attention to the prisoner's arm. "He
has a wound, and it has bled freely, which accounts for his weakness.
Let me tie a cloth about it, and then carry him, for we do not desire
to see our captive slip from our fingers, and so rob us of the pleasure
which we hope to have. Stand aside, you who gape and hold the knife,
while I see to the man."

Evidently the one who had spoken was of some consequence, for his
comrades did not demur, and instead stood on one side; while the one
who had drawn his kriss returned it to its place looking abashed and
uncomfortable as he did so. A few moments later the wound was roughly
bound, and Tyler was being carried up into the stockade. A sheltered
spot was found for him, and he was placed upon the ground, while orders
were given for water and food to be brought to him. Then those who had
captured him went in a body to their chief to tell him the tale which
they had agreed upon. As for Tyler, left alone in the shadow of one of
the huts, he dared not so much as move an arm lest someone should be
watching.

"I must remember the part I am playing," he said to himself, "and must
on no account appear to be shamming. When they see that I am helpless
they will leave me alone, and perhaps I shall have the night to myself.
Ah, here comes someone!"

Through his half-closed lids he caught sight of a woman advancing
towards him, and at once made ready to act his part. Closing his eyes,
he lay so still that he might have been dead, and made no movement when
the woman spoke to him. A second later his hand was grasped and the
arm lifted to its fullest height, only to be dropped again, to see,
perhaps, whether it would fall with a crash, or whether this seemingly
unconscious man had power to control it. However, Tyler guessed the
object of the movement, and allowed the limb to fall with all its
weight. Then he felt a gourd placed to his lips, while a few drops of
cold water were allowed to trickle into his mouth.

