"He is but young, and will recover," said the woman in soft tones. "He
is one of a race whom we admire, for their men are hard and can fight
and work well, and by the tale which has come to us this lad and his
comrade, who is dead, made a fine stand against our men. Well, it is
a pity, for he must die. But the chief has sent word that he is to be
carefully tended, for the rogue may have news of these white people who
propose to come up the river and attack us. Not that we care much for
the tale, for Rembas is safe against thousands. There, I have sent some
water down his throat, and in a little time he will be better and will
be sensible. He shall have some food then, and perhaps to-morrow morning
he will be well enough to be killed."

She did not seem to see the strangeness of her words, but took it for
granted that once her charge was better he would be executed. Indeed, to
her mind such a course seemed only natural, for if the prisoner were not
strong and fully alive, how could he afford amusement to the pirates, a
collection of people who revelled in cruelty? And therefore, having done
her best for him, she left him to himself and went about her daily work,
wondering where the youthful Chinaman had come from, and how it was that
he happened to be in the river Sarebus. As for Tyler, no sooner had the
woman left him to himself than he gently opened his eyes and looked
about him, carefully taking stock of the buildings and of the forts
which were erected on every hand.

"Evidently making preparations for the attack which is expected," he
said, observing that guns had been placed in position in many places,
so as to command the approach from the river, and that stockades were
being built. "But our guns would quickly send them flat to the ground,
and scatter the pirates. How much I should like to be present at the
engagement, and what would I not give to be able to get away now and
inform my commander of the preparations being made to resist him? Yes,
when the guns have done their work the real excitement will begin, for
the boats will row right in till they are within gun-shot, and then they
will have to surmount the booms which are outside. And there is another
question of importance. Captain Keppel ought to know the exact position
of those booms, so as to send a boat ahead to blow a hole through them.
I must get away! The very first chance I get I shall take to my heels
and make a bolt for it."

