It was a desperate resolve to make, but a natural one under the
circumstances; for what else could he do? To lie there simply meant that
his end was put off for a few hours. Sooner or later, if he but waited
for it, he would be dragged to execution, and then no one could save
him. Why not, then, snatch at the smallest chance which offered, and
trust to his heels to carry him to safety?

So determined was our hero that, seeing that no one was at hand, he
was almost in the act of springing to his feet, when sounds broke upon
his ear, and he became aware of the fact that a number of men were
approaching, and in their midst the leader of the Rembas pirates.
Instantly his eyes closed as if he were still insensible.

"So that is the man who kept you all at bay?" said the chief, looking
critically at the unconscious figure at his feet. "A lanky Chinaman, you
tell me? But--no, surely not one of that country, for see, his pigtail
is almost severed, while the arm which is bandaged is too white for one
of that race. This is no Chinaman, but an Englishman. I can tell him at
a glance, for I have been at Singapore and at Sarawak."

The news that their prisoner was of greater consequence than they had
imagined caused the Malays and Dyaks the greatest astonishment and
pleasure, and as their chief assured them that he was an Englishman they
danced with delight.

"He will be all the more valuable," said the chief thoughtfully, "for we
will contrive to gather news of the intended attack from him. Remember,
though we of Rembas are not always on terms of friendship with those
who live at Pakoo and at Paddi, yet on this occasion, when all are to
meet the foreigner, we shall bury our differences and make common cause
against the enemy. For that reason the Dutchman, Hans Schlott, will
not refuse if I ask him a favour, and will come hither at my bidding.
We will send to him at once, for he can speak the language of these
Englishmen, and we will ask him to interview the prisoner. Come, no time
must be lost, for many miles of river lie between him and us."

