Fortunate for Tyler was it that he could not understand what was said,
for then he would have realized that his case was almost hopeless. Hans
Schlott to come and interview him as he lay a prisoner at Rembas! Why,
the crafty Dutchman would recognize him in a moment, and would at once
insist on his execution. That such would be the consequence of a meeting
between the man who had murdered Mr. Beverley and Tyler Richardson could
not be doubted, and had our hero but known of the proposal to send for
him, have but dreamed that ere noon of the following day the Dutchman
would be there in the stockade which surrounded Rembas, there is no
doubt that he would have watched eagerly for the smallest loophole for
escape, and would have snatched at it instantly, however desperate
the chance which it offered. However, perhaps it was as well that he
was ignorant of the facts, for his peace of mind was less disturbed
in consequence, and he was able to devote more attention to his
surroundings and to plans for getting away than would have been possible
had the dread of an interview with Hans Schlott been before him.

"Yes, he is an Englishman, and comes from Sarawak, I'll be bound," went
on the chief of the Rembas pirates, closely inspecting the unconscious
prisoner again. "He may have come here by accident, having been washed
in by the flood from the sea, or he may have come hither with the object
of spying upon us. The last is the most likely. But we shall soon
know, for the Dutchman will interrogate him, and if his tongue wags but
slowly in reply, we shall have a means to quicken it. But let us see to
the message. To you," and he took one of the by-standers by the arm,
"I give the post of honour. Take a boat and crew this instant, and row
for Paddi, bearing this from me: 'The lord of Rembas bids the lord of
Paddi greeting, and asks that he take passage in this boat, or in any
one of his own vessels, and come to Rembas at once, as we are in need of
his services. We have a prisoner, a young Englishman, who is tall and
lanky, and we desire to have him questioned, thinking that he has been
sent to spy upon us.' There, that should be sufficient. Go now, without
loss of time, and nightfall should see you at Paddi. An hour will do for
discussion, and after that you will set out to return. By noon to-morrow
you will be here with our guest, and we shall be able to look into this
matter. When that is done, and the night is fallen, we will have a
bonfire in the centre of the stockade, and there we will pass the time
pleasantly at the expense of the prisoner."

