Once more he ran his eye over the apparently unconscious figure at his
feet. Then he turned away and went to see that his orders were carried
out without delay. As for the others, they, too, soon went to their
huts, and Tyler was left lying in the shadow alone.

"They suspect me," he said to himself, opening his eyes and looking
around. "I am not certain, but I think I overheard the word 'Englis',
which would make it appear that the chief recognized that I was not a
Chinaman. If that is so, he is likely to question me very closely, and
he will certainly not be inclined to show me any mercy on account of the
fact that I am one of those who are about to attack him. Well, I must
wait for night to fall, and then I shall make a dash for it. Ah, they
have forgotten to search me for arms!"

With a sudden flush of pleasure he realized that his revolvers still
occupied their place in his waist-cloth, and that he had a means of
defence. Then, as there was nothing more to be done, he looked about him
till he felt that he knew every corner of Rembas, and then fell into a
doze. When he awoke again, the woman who had previously come to his help
was standing beside him, and at once she lifted the gourd of water to
his lips.

"You are better, but still weak," she said. "Drink, and afterwards I
will give you food, for it is only in that way that you will become a
man again. There, lie still while I place the food in your mouth."

In her way she was kind to this forlorn prisoner, and seeing that he
still appeared to be so weak as to be unable to lift his hands, she fed
him with rice, which she conveyed to his lips by means of her fingers.
Then she gave him another drink of water, and having placed a roll of
matting beneath his head, and the gourd beside him, she left him for the
night.

"Sleep," she said, "and when to-morrow comes I will come to you again to
feed you. A fine rest to you!"

A moment later she was out of sight, and Tyler found himself alone
lying in the lengthening shadow of a hut which was situated in the very
centre of the town of Rembas. Other huts clustered about him, but they
seemed to be untenanted, and he soon made sure that they must contain
provisions and arms and ammunition. As for the inhabitants, numbers were
to be seen at work on the fortifications, busily making them more secure
against the expected attack, while others went about their ordinary
business. Every now and again someone would stroll past the spot where
the prisoner lay, perhaps to satisfy his curiosity; but on each occasion
Tyler was lying in precisely the same spot, his head propped upon the
roll of matting, and his limbs spread out in a manner which showed that
he was helpless. Apparently the pirates were satisfied that there was no
deceit, for when the sun went down, and the long shadow cast by the hut
suddenly became merged into the general darkness, they did not trouble
to move him, but left him there, feeling that he was secure.

