"He can come to no harm, and the night air will serve to revive him,"
said the leader of the Rembas pirates as he passed to his hut. "These
pale-faces are not like us, and a very little takes their strength away.
But you will see that he will revive by the morning, for he has already
taken food. Leave him, and perhaps when the day comes he will be able to
sit up, or even to stand upon his feet with help. As for escape, it is
out of the question in his case."

Two hours later, when all sounds in the stockade had died down, Tyler
prepared to make an attempt to escape, and, as a preliminary, thrust his
hand into his waist-cloth and brought his revolvers out, one at a time.
Carefully running his hands over them, he made sure that they were ready
for use, though whether or not the powder had been spoilt by his short
immersion in the river he could not say. Then, having stared about him,
and listened eagerly for sounds of any pirate who might happen to be
abroad, he rose to his feet and began to steal away in the dense shadow
of the hut.

"I must keep out of the rays of the moon," he said to himself, glancing
at the sky, where a crescent of the orb was calmly floating. "The light
is quite sufficient to show me to an enemy, and, on the other hand, it
will enable me to detect one who may be approaching. I'll stick close to
the huts, and when I am bound to cross an open space will make a dash
for it. Here goes!"

With a revolver in either hand he stole along beside the wall of beaten
clay and bamboo, and soon came to the end of the hut. Then, having
paused for some moments, he flitted across the space which intervened
between it and a second, and once more was buried in deep darkness.

Ah! As he stood there, looking about him with eager eyes in case someone
should have seen him, a sound, the rustle of a garment, broke upon
his ear, and instantly he became riveted to the spot, his limbs held
rigidly, while he searched the shadows with his eyes. There it was
again, and as he looked he fancied he caught sight of a dusky figure
away on his right. Was it a Dyak sent to watch the prisoner, and who,
seeing that he was about to escape, was following with the intention of
springing upon him as his hopes were about to be realized? Yes, that
must be the solution of this mystery, and the fellow over there was
tracking him, following him like a cat.

