At the thought a cold perspiration broke from Tyler's forehead, while
his heart thumped so fiercely against his ribs that he even dreaded lest
the sound was audible. Then, too, his head throbbed, partly with the
rough treatment which he had received when captured, and partly owing to
the excitement under which he laboured. He could scarcely think, could
hardly gather his wits, and stood there for some seconds scarcely daring
to breathe. Then the courage which had helped him thus far through the
many dangers which he had of late been called upon to face came to his
aid, his old spirit of determination returned to him, and in an instant,
it seemed, Tyler Richardson was himself again, peering into the darkness
with all his senses alert, and judging the situation with that calmness
which had astounded his friends on former occasions.

"Dyak or Malay," he whispered to himself, "it makes no difference to
me, for I have met both before, and have beaten them. I will not allow
this fellow to spoil my hopes, and will shoot him like a dog if he
interferes. But does he see me? I am in the shade, and it is possible
that he has lost sight of my figure. Ah, I will play a prank upon him!"

Suddenly perceiving that if the man, whoever he was, had been following,
he would have seen him dart across the space lit by the feeble rays of
the moon, and that, having watched the prisoner gain the shadow of the
hut, the pirate would expect him to creep along beside the latter and
emerge again at the farther end, Tyler decided to remain where he was
for a time, and so mislead the man.

"By not moving myself I may force him to disclose his own position," he
thought, "and then I shall be able to deal with him. And, besides, it
is not at all certain that he is actually following me. Perhaps he has
some other game to carry out, and cares nothing for the prisoner."

However improbable the last might be, Tyler did not mean to lose sight
of it, and, in accordance with his resolution, crouched in the shadow,
and remained perfectly still there, peering out into the comparative
light beyond in the hope that he would catch sight of the stranger.

