There he was. The swish of a linen garment and the patter of a sandalled
foot broke the silence, and a tall figure was seen to glide along beside
a hut across the way and disappear round the corner. Strange! He was
moving away from Tyler, for now the hut stood between them. But not for
long; for ere many moments had passed the same sounds were heard again,
and the same ghostly object came into view, this time more easily seen,
for the reason that a few stray rays of the moon reached him. Why, he
had made a round of the dwelling, and, as if he had failed to find that
for which he was searching, was now flitting across to another near at
hand! Instantly Tyler turned to follow his movements, wondering what the
man could want. Then he suddenly swung right round, for the muzzle of
one of his weapons had tapped against the woodwork of the hut, and had
given rise to a sharp noise which had instantly brought the stranger to
a stop.

"He heard it, and if he did not know of my presence here before he
suspects it now," thought Tyler. "It was a piece of carelessness and bad
luck, and may cost me my life. Ah, he too is hiding in the shadow and
peering in this direction!"

For many minutes did the two silent figures watch each other, or,
rather, search the shadows in the vain endeavour to recognize who was
hidden there. And more than once did Tyler lift his arm and take aim at
his opponent, thinking that to risk a shot would be better, perhaps,
than to wait there in such uncertainty, and always with the fear in
his heart that another of the pirates might put in an appearance. But
however justified the deed, he could not reconcile himself to it. It
seemed so much like murder, like shooting a man from behind; and as the
thought came to him our hero lowered his weapon, while he puzzled his
brains as to how he should act.

As for the stranger, his patience seemed to swiftly come to an end, and
at length he commenced to creep from the shadow towards the spot where
Tyler was in hiding. A tall, lanky individual, in that half-light he
appeared almost like a giant as he stood for the space of a second to
his full height. Then, snatching at a weapon which was thrust in a band
of linen about his waist, he dropped on hands and knees and stealthily
crawled forward.

