As if some sight had dazed him, he passed his hand across his eyes, and
stared again at his opponent, keeping his revolver levelled at him all
the while. Then he advanced a step or two and peered at the stranger. As
for the latter, he, too, was acting in a manner strangely different from
that which one would have expected. As Tyler had levelled his weapon he
had started back a pace. Then he had suddenly leaned forward and stared
into the face of the man who stood before him. What were his thoughts
no one could say, but there he stood as if spell-bound, not uttering a
sound, staring at his silent opponent. A moment later, however, as Tyler
gave vent to the words, the figure opposite him had sprung forward, the
naked weapon had dropped to the ground, and two hands were groping for
his in the semi-darkness.

"Massa! Massa Tyler Richardson! You! de prisoner!"

"And that is Li Sung!" gasped Tyler. "I cannot believe it possible. I am
escaping. I thought you were a pirate about to stop me, and in less time
than I can think I should have shot you. Then the moon showed me that
the bright point at which I aimed was a small brass box in which you
carry snuff, and instantly I realized that it must be you. What are you
doing here? Speak! We have no time to lose!"

For a few seconds the faithful Li Sung could not respond to his master,
so utterly taken aback and staggered was he by the extraordinary ending
of what had appeared to be a serious danger. This his master! And the
latter had recognized his servant but just in time, had told him by
the snuff-box which dangled about his neck, and which, had he been away
in China, amongst his countrymen, would never have been there. Yes, it
was strange that a habit which he had learned from the Malays of Borneo
should save his life, and that the wearing of a box of metal about
his neck should enable his master to find him. His delight was beyond
everything. This stoical, placid Chinee was a different being, and for
the first time for many a year he was at a loss for words, while his
lips trembled and tears started to his slit-like eyes.

