"Massa!" he managed to gasp at last. "Li he comee here to find you.
He watch de town of Rembas and sneak here when de light die down. Den
he creep close to de stockade, and he hear plenty fine words from de
sentry who talkee to one of de men. He learn dat you am velly weak, and
am wandering in de head. Den Li say dat dat not right. He must getee
you away from de place, and he kill de sentry Yes, him not wait to tink
velly much, but kill him wid de knife. Den him sneakee into de town,
and--"

"And happened to run up against the weak and helpless prisoner," burst
in Tyler in a whisper. "It is all plain now, and the rest can be left to
later on. Only this I know. You stood by me. You came here at the risk
of your life to save me. I shall not forget, and later on will thank
you."

"No needee to do dat, massa," was the Chinaman's reply. "Li not alivee
to come here if massa not savee him in de river. But time we left de
town. What am de orders?"

"That you lead the way to the river, and that we make for the mouth as
soon as possible."

Without further conversation they turned their faces to the stockade
which surrounded the town of Rembas. At the gate lay the figure of the
sentry who had been keeping watch, and whom Li Sung had killed, and over
his body each stepped in turn. The gate gave to a slight push, and ere
very long they were on the bank of the river which ran direct into the
Sarebus.

"De boat or a prahu? What does massa say?"

"The first till we are in the stream, and then the last," was the sharp
and unhesitating reply. "Lead the way."

Grasping the edge of the Chinaman's cloak, for it was dark beneath the
trees which fringed the bank, Tyler followed Li Sung without a doubt
of his ability to lead him. Then, arrived at the spot where the boat
was moored, each stepped into her, while a thrust from the Chinaman's
brawny leg sent her afloat. There, standing up cutting the silvery beams
with a line of black, was the mast of a small river prahu, and at once,
as if they had chosen it by common consent, the boat was rowed in that
direction. No need to hoist an anchor, for a rope of rattan alone held
the barque, and a swift flash of the knife severed it Then the two dusky
figures went to the ropes, and soon the prahu was standing down-stream
with bellying sail.

