"De bore am gone and de tide am falling," said Li Sung, coming aft to
where Tyler stood at the helm. "Keep de ship to de centre of de river
and all am safe. Comee de morning and de sea am in sight."

"And perhaps the friends who are waiting for us. Get along forward, Li
Sung, and keep a bright look-out, for it would be hard if we were to run
on a bank after all that has happened."

Alone upon the wide sweep of water they sailed swiftly towards the mouth
of the river Sarebus, and, just as the sun rose, emerged into the sea.
Instantly a shout left their lips, and they turned to shake one another
by the hand; for anchored behind a tiny sandy promontory were two
vessels, one of European build, which was undoubtedly the _Dido_.




CHAPTER XIX

An Attack upon the Stockades


"Back again! We scarcely expected you, and a load of anxiety is lifted
from my mind," cried the captain of the _Dido_ in hearty tones as Tyler
swarmed to the deck of the war vessel, and, leaving Li Sung in the prahu
made fast to the gangway below, went striding to the poop. "Come, tell
me the news, for I am eager to hear it. Here we are, you see, at the
rendezvous appointed, and I may say that all are eager to be moving. Let
us get down into the cabin and have a chat."

Seizing the Chinaman, who had boarded the vessel, by the hand, Captain
Keppel wrung it with enthusiasm, and then, ere he led the way to his
cabin beneath the poop, took a step backwards, the better to be able
to survey the gallant young fellow who had so willingly undertaken
to ascend the Sarebus and gain tidings of the enemy. As for the crew
of the _Dido_, they were not slow to guess what was happening, and,
remembering the fact that two Chinamen had so recently taken possession
of a prahu, much to their mystification, and that the young fellow who
had so recently joined them had been absent ever since, they recognized
that this Chinaman who had just come aboard in his tattered and
travel-stained garments must be the same. For some moments they waited
watching the interview upon the poop. Then, as their commander was seen
to grasp the stranger by the hand, their excitement was roused to the
highest.

