"Took 'im by the 'and!" shouted one lusty tar, lifting an enormous palm
to shade his eyes from the sun. "Then if that don't prove that that
feller ain't a Chinee after all, well--bust me!"

He paused for a moment to find an expression adequate for the occasion,
and then, changing his plug to the other cheek, looked round at his
comrades.

"It's the young orfficer what come aboard a few days gone back," he
whispered hoarsely. "Him what arrived at Sarawak with the fleet of
prahus and a crew of darkies. Strike me! but what's he been up to this
time?"

"Been sailing up the river Sarebus," shouted John Marshall, the
boatswain of the old schooner, who had taken up his quarters on the
_Dido_ for the time being, instantly recognizing Tyler as he stood there
on the upper deck. "He's been risking his life again. He's been after
them 'ere pirates and the Dutch bloke as I told yer about. Here, let's
give him a rouser. One, two, now all together!"

Thanks to the fact that John Marshall had a busy and a ready tongue,
the crew of the _Dido_, and indeed the greater part of the inhabitants
of Sarawak, had long ere this gained news of all the adventures which
had befallen Tyler on his way to join his ship, and now that something
more had happened, and they gathered the fact that this lad--for he
was little more than that--had dared to ascend the river and spy upon
the pirates themselves, their enthusiasm knew no bounds, and, leaping
forward at John's shout, they rent the air with their cheers, repeating
them till Captain Keppel advanced to the rail and lifted his hand to ask
for their silence.

"Nicely done, my lads!" he said, in tones of satisfaction. "He will
appreciate your cheers far more perhaps than the poor thanks which I can
give him. Let me tell you that this officer is a gallant one indeed, and
that although he is still practically a new-comer and a stranger to most
of you, yet that he has already earned distinction. For the splendid
manner in which he brought through the tribe of Dyaks he will deserve
commendation at the hands of his seniors, but now he has added something
more, and I shall strongly recommend him for reward. There, my lads,
I'm even more pleased than are you, and to celebrate the occasion, and
because we have some fun ahead, I'll give orders for a round of grog to
be served. Then you can drink success to our friend and to the coming
expedition."

