Thus bidden, Tyler rapidly outlined the preparations which he had seen
in progress at Rembas, and told Captain Keppel that, having now seen
that stronghold in addition to Paddi, he was sure that the former would
offer a fiercer resistance. Then, urged by those who were listening,
he narrated how he and the Chinaman had held the rock, and had finally
taken flight; how he had been hauled into the enemy's boat; and how,
while making his escape from the stronghold of Rembas, a strange figure
had dogged his footsteps, and had almost joined in combat with him.

"I call it a wonderful piece of luck," exclaimed Lieutenant Horton, who
had also joined the party in time to hear the tale. "Anyone else would
probably have fired point-blank, and only discovered that the opponent
was a friend in reality when it was too late. How fortunate that you
caught sight of the tin about the neck of this Li Sung!"

For some little time those who had listened to the tidings which Tyler
had brought discussed the matter, commenting on the news and upon the
steps which he had taken to make good his escape. Indeed, so interested
did they become that their attention was withdrawn from our hero, and
when at last they turned to question him further, they discovered that
he was fast asleep, his head reclining upon his hands on the cabin
table, while his breathing was long and deep, showing how much he was in
need of rest.

"Done to a turn," said Captain Keppel in a whisper. "The lad has worked
like a Trojan, and has been at it almost since the time when he left
Sarawak. We know at any rate that he has not had a wink of sleep for two
nights, while he has been fighting most of the time. Catch hold of his
legs, Doctor, while I take his head and shoulders. We'll pop him into
his bunk without disturbing him."

In a trice they had Tyler between them, and in less than a minute he was
between the blankets, snoring heavily and utterly unconscious of his
surroundings. When his eyes opened again, and he looked about him in
bewilderment, it was to discover that sunlight was streaming down into
his quarters, and that his comrades were hastily donning their clothes.

