"Halloo! Still day?" he asked, peering at the others and rubbing his
eyes. "What a sleep I've had!"

"Should say so, old chap," was the laughing answer. "At any rate you've
lain there like a log since you arrived here, and that was somewhere
before noon yesterday."

"Yesterday? Impossible!"

"Not a bit of it. You've slept for twenty hours on end, and if you're
not precious slippy you'll be too late to hear all about the expedition.
All hands are to muster at once while the skipper reads out the orders."

Tyler was out of his bunk like a shot, and rapidly scrambled into a suit
of clothes, tearing the old ones off in a moment. Then he hastily washed
his face and hands, and darted up on deck in the wake of his comrades.
Above, all were assembled, and listened eagerly as the captain read the
orders for the day. Then each man went to the magazine, there to be
served with arms, which all at once set to work to clean and put in the
best of order. That some big movement was afoot anyone could see, for
there was an air of half-suppressed excitement about the tars, and they
discussed in eager terms the chances of a hand-to-hand conflict with the
enemy.

Early on the following morning all was in readiness, and no sooner had
breakfast been finished and swept away than the shrill notes of a pipe
rang out, while the bugle of the marines awoke the echoes. Then a boat
came pulling alongside, bearing the Rajah of Sarawak.

"We propose to leave Rembas till the last," said Captain Keppel, as
Tyler stood before him and the rajah, having been called on to the poop
to speak with them. "We shall leave the _Dido_ here and pull up in open
boats, taking that tope over there with us. She is well supplied with
food and with ammunition, and must be well guarded. And now for the
force. Lieutenant Wilmot Horton will be in command, for it is one of
the perquisites of his rank to lead an expedition of this nature. But I
propose to go also, in my gig, and with me will be the rajah. You will
accompany us, Mr. Richardson, and, since you have now been face to face
with these pirates on two occasions, we shall expect you to take good
care of us.

