"And now for the actual men to be taken," he went on, turning away from
Tyler with a smile as the latter flushed red at his remarks. "The force
of officers and men, sailors and marines, will be approximately eighty
in number. We shall take the pinnace, two cutters, my gig, and the
_Jolly Bachelor_, which the rajah has kindly placed at my disposal. She
is native built, and admirably suited to our needs, for she will take
thirty men with ease, besides a six-pounder. The pinnace will be armed
with a twelve. The tope will accompany the expedition with food and
ammunition, and strung on to our forces we shall have nearly a thousand
natives, Borneans, Malays, and Dyaks, but mostly the latter, and a
goodly few the same who accompanied Mr. Richardson from along the coast.
They may not be of much use in the attack, but I promise you that they
will be to the fore if flight is attempted by the enemy, for they do not
love them, and have suffered much at their hands."

"They have indeed," burst in the Rajah. "For a century and more their
children and wives have been enslaved, and the men killed, while their
fruit-trees and their plantations have been cut down and ruined. But you
will have to keep a close hand upon these natives, Keppel, for they do
not know what discipline means."

"I mean to," was the emphatic answer, "and for that purpose I am
placing one of my officers over them, with strict injunctions to watch
them. And now, if you are ready, Rajah, we will set out."

The ruler of Sarawak having assented, the bugles and whistles once more
set the echoes ringing, and very soon the boats of the expedition had
been marshalled. Drawing a rifle from the magazine, Tyler dropped into
the gig and awaited the coming of his commander. Half an hour later
all were in readiness, and having turned the bows of the boats in that
direction they were pulled into the river Sarebus. In spite of the
fact that a deluge of rain poured down upon their heads not one of the
attacking-party seemed to mind, or to have his high spirits damped. For
the weather was warm, and each one wore a kajan, a mat through which
the head was thrust, which effectually protected them from the wet.
Then, again, who could say what would happen? Perhaps heavy and fierce
fighting was in store for the force, for these pirates of the river had
had their quarters there, father and son, for more than a generation,
and would not be likely to yield them without a struggle. Then, again,
they would be ashore, behind stockades, and would have the advantage of
knowing every inch of the river, while the attackers would have to come
up in the open, exposed to every gun and rifle. But if the enemy counted
upon the fact that the British tars would be dismayed at the thought,
they were doomed to disappointment, for all that the latter did was to
joke and laugh, with an occasional grumble at the long pull which must
intervene between themselves and the enemy.

