"Well, there's one thing about the business that I like," cried one of
them as he pulled at his oar. "A long pull's a long pull, and yer can't
alter it nohow, but yer can have it made easy like if the flood's with
yer. That's what we've got, and yer can feel the rush at every stroke.
With a stream like this well be there against to-morrow night."

"And then the guns'll be popping," burst in another.

"Bet yer a quid o' 'bacca I'm in their show afore you, Billie."

"Done with yer," was the answer, growled in the huskiest of voices.
"It's a fair bet, and our mates'll see who's the winner."

Laughing and chatting as they rowed, the hours swiftly passed away,
Tyler having much to occupy his attention. Indeed, every bend of the
river brought some recollection to his mind. It was there that they had
hidden their prahu, that low sandy bank was the spot where they had
landed in search of inhabitants, while, higher up, the land became even
more familiar.

"That is the rock which Li Sung and I defended," he ventured to remark,
when at last the expedition was close to the branch of the river upon
which Rembas was situated, "and by turning to the left now we should be
under their guns before we could believe it."

"Then we will keep straight on," was the reply. "But that was a capital
site for defence, Mr. Richardson. For two alone it was just the isolated
position which would offer a chance of success, and you were fortunate
to have it so close at hand when you were capsized. But that reminds me
of the bore. We will look out for a spot in which to pass the night."

When darkness fell the boats of the expedition lay snugly under the
banks, while the men lay in them, smoking and waiting for the meal. Then
fires were lighted and kettles set to boil, while certain of the men
were told off to act as sentries. And thus, pulling cautiously by day,
and tying up to the banks at night, the winding course of the river was
slowly followed and Paddi approached. At length the latter was close at
hand, and one fine morning, after the bore had gone sweeping past on
its course, with its usual accompaniment of brushwood and drift from
the banks of the stream, the expedition loaded weapons, and, pulling
up their moorings, took the flood which went racing on to Paddi. Had
they wished to go slow to their destination it would have been almost
impossible, so strong and rapid was the stream in these upper reaches.
But the pace suited the spirit of every man, and particularly of those
who occupied the gig. At the helm, sitting in his shirt sleeves, was the
Rajah of Sarawak, as calm as if before his own home at Sarawak, while
close at hand were Captain Keppel and Tyler. Forward of them were the
crew, a set of lusty fellows, whose hands itched to toss their oars
aside and snatch at the cutlass which each carried in his belt. Hark! A
murmur in front, a bend in the river, and nothing but trees and jungle
to be seen. Was it the enemy? The commander turned his face towards his
companion questioningly, and in reply Tyler nodded.

