"And there it is, sir," shouted Tyler, as he came into view of the
bamboo palisading which surrounded Paddi. "There is the main fort, sir,
and in front of it is the boom. It is a different one from that which
was here some days ago, and I think that it has been constructed more
strongly."

"It is composed of trees driven into the bed of the river," said the
rajah, taking a hurried look. "Others are laid across the top and lashed
there with rattans. We must cut them adrift."

"Wait, there is an opening," called out Captain Keppel, standing up
in the gig and pointing ahead. "Yes, I am sure of it, but it is very
narrow. Send her at it, Rajah. Put her nose full tilt at the opening and
squeeze her through."

In their excitement not one of the crew of the gig recollected the fact
that they were still practically alone, and that to pierce the boom
and enter on the farther side would expose them to the attack of every
one of the enemy. Swept on by the river, which matched well with their
eagerness, they turned the head of the gig for the narrow opening in the
boom, and went at it with a will. Bump! It was hardly wide enough, and
the timbers grated against the trees. But nothing could stop her, and
in an instant she was through the narrow neck and shooting on towards
the stockade beyond, and the shelving hill, on the foot of which John
Marshall and his party of natives had remained while Tyler entered in
search of the prisoners.

"'Bout ship!" called out the captain. "Nicely does it, my lads. Now,
keep her there while I give 'em a barrel or two. Mr. Richardson, you had
better join me."

Obeying the order without hesitation, the gig was turned swiftly, and by
means of the paddles was prevented from drifting down upon the stockade,
where she and her crew would undoubtedly have fallen victims to the
pirates, for they would have been overwhelmed. Then, with a steadiness
which did them credit, the commander, Tyler, and the coxswain raised
their weapons to their shoulders and opened a fusillade.

