Crash! Bang! A roar and a couple of thunderous reports; then a spurt of
flame and smoke from the embrasures along the face of the fort.

"Aimed for the boom, and easily missed us," said the Rajah with a smile,
as the discharge swept over the gig and churned the water about the boom
into foam. "But a few of the bullets are dropping about us, so we'll
move aside. Steady there, starboard! Strongly does it with the port.
There she is, and soon our comrades will be here."

By now a warm musketry fire had commenced upon the gig, and the bullets
were splashing on every side. But not a man flinched from his task.
Indeed the tars who manned the oars scorned even to turn their heads,
for they were steady old salts, and had been in many a scuffle. Instead,
they kept their eyes on their companions, and watched as the remaining
boats came down upon the boom. Swept by the current the pinnace struck
it broadside on, and was held there for a moment, receiving several
bullets amongst her crew, three of whom were wounded. But others soon
came to her assistance, and with the help of the natives the rattans
were cut through and the boom dragged aside. Then the twelve-pounder
answered the boom of the brass cannon set up in the stockade, and a
burst of grape went shrieking and hurtling through the town of Paddi.

Meanwhile the gig had slowly and insensibly approached the bank below
the stockade, and, thinking to take her easily, the pirates dashed down
to the water's edge, where they rushed to and fro, almost delirious
with excitement, while they discharged their guns at the crew. Suddenly
a figure pushed to their front, and Tyler, who had kept a watchful eye
upon them, instantly recognized the Dutchman. So short was the distance
which separated them that each recognized the other, and at once a
weapon flew to the Dutchman's shoulder and he fired, the bullet striking
the gunwale of the boat close beside Tyler. A moment later Captain
Keppel pressed his trigger, a Malay beside the Dutchman falling full
length to the ground.

