"A bad shot!" he cried in disgust. "Give me your rifle, and I will see
whether I cannot bag the fellow for you, for I recognize him as the
notorious Hans Schlott."

Reaching for Tyler's weapon, he swung it to his shoulder and would have
fired had not the Dutchman leapt aside and darted amongst his men.
Indeed the knowledge that Tyler was there amongst the attackers seemed
suddenly to have caused him to lose his nerve, for as they stared,
hoping to catch a good view of him, they saw his figure pushing through
the throng of frantic natives, and presently he was at the entrance to
the stockade.

"Halt!" shouted Tyler, standing in his excitement and at once becoming
the target for a hundred rifles. "Hans Schlott, I call upon you to stop
and hand yourself over to justice! Move a step forward and I will shoot
you like a dog!"

As he spoke he stretched out his hand and took his rifle from Captain
Keppel. Then, raising it to his shoulder, he covered the Dutchman and
waited for his answer. Had he been an older man, and one more full of
wariness, no doubt he would have fired then and there and ended the
matter. But Tyler hesitated, and the moment gave Hans Schlott his
liberty. At the sound of Tyler's voice he stopped abruptly and swung
round, displaying features which were livid with terror. His lips moved
as if he were repeating the order and the warning. Then, as the thought
of flight occurred to him, he suddenly threw himself upon the ground,
and, diving forward, was behind the bamboo barricade before the shot
could reach him. Then, with terror written upon his face and the fear
of death in his heart, he leapt to his feet and went scampering away
through the town and out into the jungle. As for Tyler, seeing that he
had missed his mark, he rapidly reloaded, determined to capture his man
when the stockade was taken.

"Ah! here are some of the boats, so we will pull for the bank," shouted
Captain Keppel a moment later. "Give way, my lads, and do not let it be
said that we were the last to set foot in the enemy's fort."

