With a cheer the crew of the gig bent to their oars, and, helped by the
tide, soon brought the boat up to the bank. A second earlier one of the
cutters had reached the same part, and instantly her commander, a Mr.
D'Aeth, led a charge up the slope against the bamboo stockade. Leaping
into the water, Tyler was only a few paces behind him, and, accompanied
by a collection of sailors and marines, dashed at the stockade. Behind
them, racing for the same goal as soon as their boats deposited them
upon the bank, came more of the men of the _Dido_, and amongst them
Dyaks and natives of Borneo. Here and there shots rang out in the air,
and shrill cries resounded. Then a sheet of flame suddenly licked round
the central hut, and almost before it could have been thought possible
Paddi was burning to the ground, while the host of warriors who had
manned the stockade, and who in their time had wrought such misery, were
fleeing for their lives, with a score and more of hungry Dyaks at their
heels, who longed for this opportunity of revenge, and for the heads
which victory might bring.

"And now for the other fellows, and then we will follow up the river,"
said Captain Keppel. "You will naturally want to go in pursuit, Mr.
Richardson, and therefore you will at once report to Mr. Horton. Ask him
to take you in his own boat, and tell him, with my compliments, that
he is to do all that is possible to capture the rogue who led these
pirates. Now, to the gig, my lads, and let us clear the neighbourhood!"

Filled with exultation at the success which had attended their efforts,
and at the thought that they had suffered little loss, the sailors and
marines soon sent the remainder of the enemy flying, and then prepared
to follow them with a readiness which showed that their hearts were
in the matter. Dividing into two parties, one at once set to work to
dismantle the forts and toss the guns into the river, while the other
boarded the pinnace, and with the Rajah for company, and Lieutenant
Horton in command, ascended the tributary which entered the river
Sarebus on the right of the spit of land upon which Paddi had been
built. A short pull, however, disclosed the fact that it was too shallow
for navigation, even with boats drawing so little water. The expedition
returned, therefore, and, having rested and eaten, pulled for the
tributary on the left, the very one along which Tyler and his natives
had approached the piratical stronghold.

