"They will wait for us higher up, and will make a stand there," said
the Rajah. "If we can come up with them during the day we shall be able
to scatter them, for they are thoroughly upset at our success, and only
want a little more to persuade them that they are beaten. Then they will
come in and ask for terms. But you will have to be careful, Mr. Horton,
for the river is very narrow, and you may be certain that hundreds
of eyes are watching us from the jungle. We must never give them an
opportunity of rushing us."

Carefully keeping his pinnace in the centre of the stream, the
lieutenant placed himself between the Rajah and Tyler, for he knew that
both had had experience of the pirates, and was anxious to be in reach
of advice. Then, with the tars pulling with all their might, and the
marines with loaded weapons in readiness for instant action, he steered
his craft so as to avoid all obstacles. Presently there was the sound
of gongs from the jungle, and ere long hundreds of the enemy were to be
seen.

"They are in force," said the Rajah, "that is evident, and I fancy that
we shall have some difficulty in ferreting them out. Listen to the
fellows! Why, they make even more noise than before."

That the natives were aroused was very evident, for as the pinnace came
within sight of the thick jungle which they had selected for defence,
the crash of gongs and war-drums became deafening, while shrill cries of
anger and defiance filled the air.

"Just let them see that we can make a noise too," sang out the
lieutenant cheerily. "Steady there, my lads! Hang on your oars while we
get the gun ranged! You can fire when you are ready, gunner."

"Ay, ay, sir. Grape, or shall I give the varmint a ball?"

"The first, please, and send it well amongst them."

"You can trust me for that, sir. I've waited for this here day for a
year back, and bust me--"

The remainder of his conversation became inaudible as he turned to
the twelve-pounder and began to adjust the sights; but that he was in
earnest was clear, for he paid particular attention to the levelling of
the weapon, taking so much time that those who were looking on could
almost have struck him, so greatly was their patience tried. But now all
was in readiness, and with a glance at his commander the gunner of the
pinnace sent the contents of his weapon splattering into the forest.
At once a deafening babel of shouts and shrieks arose, while a hail of
slugs, leaden pellets, and pieces of iron and stone came swishing in the
direction of the pinnace.

