"Marines to watch and pick off their men. Pull, my lads, and let us give
them the cold steel," sang out the lieutenant, standing in his place to
watch the enemy. "Now, all together, send her ahead."

There was no confusion on the pinnace, thanks to the fact that all had
been previously arranged, and to the discipline which existed. In a
moment the bows were pointing for the bank, and hardly had the keel
grated, and the twelve-pounder again spoken out, than more than half of
those aboard sprang ashore. Seizing cutlasses, they waited only to allow
their officers to take post in advance, when they went pell-mell for the
enemy.

"Keep together, lads, and be sure that you do not separate from your
comrades," shouted the lieutenant, for the jungle was extremely dense,
and to have rushed into its midst without any caution would certainly
have led to death. But the men who composed the expedition were hardened
to warfare and were perfectly steady. By no means lacking the necessary
dash, they, for all that, held themselves together, and, without losing
their heads in the excitement of the moment, obeyed their officers to
the full. Bearing to the left, where a number of the enemy were located,
the gallant little band threw itself upon them, cutlasses and revolvers
meeting kriss and knife, while overhead flew spears thrown by the Dyaks.

"Charge!" shrieked Lieutenant Horton as they came to close quarters.
"Beat them back and then prepare to retreat."

Without glancing back at his men, for he knew well enough that he would
not be allowed to attack alone, he rushed at the nearest pirate, and,
fending a swishing blow aimed at him with a kriss, cut the man down
with his sword. The Rajah was beside him, and he too was confronted by
a formidable pirate. But there was no standing against him, for this
Rajah was the Englishman whose name was known and feared far and wide,
and who had shown that he was as good in the fight as he was in ordering
the affairs of the people of Sarawak. An arm shot from his shoulder,
and the fist lit full upon the face of the nearest pirate, while a shot
from his revolver sent a second sprawling to the ground. A third at once
took to his heels, an example which his comrades instantly followed.
As for Tyler, a busy three minutes was before him. Running beside the
Rajah and the lieutenant, he had at once become engaged with the enemy,
and had shot down a man with his weapon. Then in the background he
once again caught sight of the familiar, bulky figure of the Dutchman,
and, instantly forgetting the caution which had been given, he rushed
forward, hoping to capture him.

