"The murderer!" he shouted at the top of his voice. "After him!"

Forgetful of the danger he would incur, and of the fact that he was
disobeying an order, he plunged forward and snatched at the collar of
Hanns Schlott, while he held a revolver to his ear. A second later he
was hurled aside by a Dyak who happened to be close beside his rascally
leader, and hardly had he reached the earth than his opponent was
standing over him, about to bury a murderous-looking kriss in his body.

"Fire!" shouted a voice some few yards away, and instantly, as if the
order had been meant for him, Tyler pressed a trigger and brought his
opponent stumbling upon his face.

"And now for Hanns Schlott," he called out, springing to his feet and
looking about him. "Where is he? Surely he has not escaped."

"He has, sure enough," was the reply, in the well-known voice of John
Marshall. "This kind of thing is too much for a chap like him. But we'd
better be going, sir, for our chaps are retiring, and we ought never to
have come so far."

That the advice was good was certain, and turning at once the two ran
back to the main party, a shower of spears and a few bullets following
them. Then the order was given to make for the pinnace, and very shortly
all were aboard, staring into the jungle, while the twelve-pounder broke
the silence with its boom.

"Looks as though we were surrounded," said the Rajah, turning his head.
"Shots are coming from the jungle on either side, and from ahead also.
Then I can see numbers of the enemy behind."

"Then we had better see how we are to get out of the muddle," replied
the lieutenant coolly. "Ah, there's the spot, for us! Over with the
tiller there, and head her for that little bay."

He pointed to a portion of the bank where there was a bend, and where
in the course of many years the earth had been washed away till quite
a little bay had been formed, with a perpendicular bank. And into this
the pinnace and the few native boats which also formed part of the
expedition were rowed.

