Three times in succession did the gallant commander give tongue to the
words as he sat in his gig with his gun across his knees. Then, hearing
the beat of gongs and of drums, and the shouts of the combatants, and
detecting no voice which he could recognize as coming from his junior
or from the Rajah of Sarawak, he lifted his weapon and fired it in the
direction from which the loudest sounds came.

"Ahoy!" back came the answering shout, but almost drowned by the noise
of shallow water rushing over a pebbly bottom. "Ahoy there! Don't fire
or you will hit one of us. We are dead ahead of you."

"Then we will join you," called out the captain, and at once his gig, in
which he had set out to relieve or help the forward party immediately
prolonged firing had been heard, was rowed towards the bay in which the
native craft lay, and just outside which the pinnace was moored, so as
to allow her to make use of her gun.

Weird indeed, and hazardous in the extreme, was the position in which
the British lay, and as he reclined upon the grass, with the Rajah on
one side of him and John Marshall on the other, Tyler had to confess
that never before had he been in a worse predicament.

"We were in a tight place when upon the schooner," he whispered to
his companion, the boatswain, "and that rock, where Li Sung and I were
caught and surrounded was a ticklish position, but here there is no
knowing where the enemy are. They are everywhere, and bullets and spears
come from every direction. Halloo! There's a shot, and that is Captain
Keppel's voice or I am much mistaken."

A few seconds later the crew of the gig joined hands with Lieutenant
Horton's party, and a council of war was held, the Rajah joining in,
together with Tyler.

"Come," said Captain Keppel in pleasant tones, "we of the navy do not
pretend to know everything, and there is no doubt that in a case like
this, when the lives of all our men are at stake, the best advice should
be taken. You have had experience with these people, Rajah, and so have
you, young Richardson. What shall we do? For my part I fancy that it
will take us all our time to keep the enemy from rushing in upon us."

