"I cannot see that we can do otherwise than remain here and do our
best," was the emphatic answer, "for if we attempt to retire we may very
well get into greater difficulties, and besides, it is a bad thing to
give way before these fellows."

"Not to be thought of," burst in the captain with energy. "Either we
remain, or we go forward."

"Why not scatter the men a little, keeping them sufficiently close to
allow them to regain the centre with ease, and yet so far apart as to
extend their radius of fire?" asked Tyler as the commander of the _Dido_
turned to him. "Then if the men were instructed only to discharge their
muskets when they actually saw one of the enemy, the latter might think
that we were retiring, and might be induced to show up a little more. In
that case we should give them a lesson."

"Capital! The lad has a head for these situations," exclaimed Captain
Keppel. "We will do as he suggests and see what happens. As we have
heard very truly, we are running the danger here of being rushed and of
being slowly picked off, while the enemy are never seen. Let us entice
them forward and then give them a few volleys. Come, I will take post on
the left, and, Mr. Richardson, oblige me by going to the right. Rajah,
will you come with me? while our lieutenant takes the post of honour in
the centre."

The matter was arranged without further delay, and very shortly the
movement had been carried out in absolute silence. With John Marshall
beside him, Tyler crept into the jungle on the right, and, holding close
to the bank of the river, pushed on till the voices of some of the enemy
were close at hand.

Then, selecting a wooded part, before which the ground was more than
usually open, he lay at full length and waited for some of the pirates
to appear.

"Uncanny work," he whispered in his companion's ear. "I would far rather
feel that the others were close at hand; but I suggested the movement
and must carry my part of it through. Keep a bright look-out, and on no
account fire unless I give the order."

