Spread like a fan round the edge of the little bay, the sailors and
marines took up their positions in couples, for even the boldest of
men are apt to take fright when sent out into an unknown part in the
darkness, and with enemies close at hand. Then silence came over the
British force, and even the twelve-pounder, which had at intervals
deafened all those within reach, and drowned the babel of the enemy,
ceased its clamour. In silence, with locks at full cock and pieces at
their shoulders, the men of the expedition waited; and as they lay there
the deep and sonorous tones of hundreds of gongs came to an end also,
and the war-drums remained unbeaten. Even the shouts and the babel of
voices died down, and presently the jungle was at peace.

"One would imagine that we were alone," whispered Tyler. "But you may be
sure that every tree hides some dark figure, and that away behind, out
of hearing of ourselves, those who are leading the enemy are talking the
matter over. Look over there. There are lights, and there is the sound
of an axe."

He pointed to the right, up-stream, some fifty yards away, and both saw
three dark figures standing close beside the water, holding torches
above their heads. With them were some twenty others, who were attacking
the trunks of the trees which grew on the edge of the bank, evidently
with the object of causing them to fall across the stream.

"They want to keep us from going farther, which makes it look as though
they had taken their women and children and their wealth to some spot up
this tributary," said Tyler in low tones. "It will take them a little
time to get through those trunks, so that we can leave them to it for
the present. But later on we shall have to fire at them and drive them
away. I wonder whether they will do the same down-stream, and so bar our
retreat should we have cause to fly?"

The question was one which could not fail to cause him anxiety, for
then the safety of all in the expedition would be jeopardized. But he
had little time to think about it, for scarcely had his attention again
returned to the jungle in front of him when some dozen dusky figures
appeared, creeping across the open space which separated them from the
bank. Instantly the muskets covered them, fingers went to the triggers,
while heads sank down to the right till the eye could glance along the
sights. But so deep was the gloom that that was impossible; so that
those who were defending the position could only point their weapons
where they thought the enemy were, in the hope of hitting them.

