"Fire!" In stentorian tones the command came from the captain of the
_Dido_, and at once a volley burst from the waiting men, causing the
enemy to come to a halt, and then take to their heels with shrill cries
of terror. Then once more the shouting and the incessant beat of gongs
was heard, while the jungle became alive with moving figures, who fired
at their foes and sent spears and arrows swishing in their direction.

"Now for the others," said Tyler, noticing that those who were engaged
in cutting the trees were still at their work. "Ready? Then let them
have a bullet."

Both fired together, while, ere the report of their rifles had died
down, the boom of the twelve-pounder was heard, and a mass of grape went
crashing in amongst the trees.

"That will be their last effort," said Tyler. "They must have lost
heavily during the night, and seeing that we are not intending to retire
they will begin to feel hopeless. To-morrow, when we start to ascend the
river, they will feel that their cause is ruined."

And this proved to be the case. Lying or squatting upon the edge of the
bank, the British force spent the long hours of darkness in keeping
watch and in firing occasionally into the trees. Morning found them worn
out with their exertions, and some of them actually asleep in spite of
the danger. But a call from their leader soon brought them to their
feet, and at once they prepared to embark.

"Get aboard, and smartly, my lads," he called out in cheery tones. "We
have shown those fellows that we are not to be easily driven off, and
now that the morning has come we will let them see that we have plenty
of life left in us. Aboard, all of you, and let us hurry, for I am
hungry, and until the matter is ended we shall be unable to breakfast."

The words brought a cheer and a shout of merriment from the sailors
and marines, and all at once leapt to obey him. Soon the pinnace was
manned, and with the gunner at his piece, and the marines with weapons
ready, began to push up the river, followed by the gig in which sat
Captain Keppel. Hardly had they rowed fifty yards when a man appeared
with a white flag, and very soon the Rajah of Sarawak was engaged in
conversation with him.

