As for Tyler, he was delighted with the permission given him, and with
the thought that the capture of the murderer was to be left to him
entirely. Hastily gulping down a breakfast, he took his place at the
head of the six men whom he had selected, and at once called for the
natives who were to lead the party. Then he plunged into the jungle in
their wake, for all the world as if these guides were the Dyaks whom
he had met farther along the coast, and they were making their way to
Sarawak.

"Dutchman here," said one of the trackers suddenly, coming to a halt and
pointing eagerly at the ground. "Here," he said, making use of the small
stock of English which he possessed. "Follow, and we catch."

Like hounds let loose upon the trail the party of Malays and Dyaks who
were leading plunged through the jungle, taxing the strength of Tyler
and his men to the full. For an hour they kept on without a halt, and
just as Tyler was about to call to them and beg of them to stop for a
time, their leader threw his arms into the air, and spread them out, as
a signal to all that he had made a discovery.

"Come along here," he said, pointing with his finger to the trail left
by the Dutchman as he fled. "Him big and heavy, and him sit there. See?"

Tyler glanced at the spot, and at once grasped the fact that Hanns
Schlott had rested himself upon the root of a tree. But he could not
tell that which was clear to the native.

"Him have gun," said the latter positively. "Him sit and point into
tree. Then him let gun drop beside him. There are the marks."

As if he had actually witnessed the act, the man pointed to some
scratches upon the bark where the lock of the gun must have struck. Then
he led Tyler a few paces ahead, drawing his attention to the trail as he
did so.

"Him silly," he said with a disdainful smile for the memory of his old
leader. "Ever since he take the boat from the Englishman and kill the
owner, him so silly. Him frightened at him own shadow. See here. He
start and turn round at every step. Him stop and raise the rifle. Him
fire. Look!"

