The eagle glance of this pirate allowed nothing to escape him, and as he
spoke he drew Tyler's attention to various spots. Before them ran the
trail, still freshly shown by the trampled grass and reed. And as the
tracker had said, it came to a stop here and there, while a small patch
was more trodden than the other. Here it was that Hanns Schlott, the
cowardly Dutchman, and the villain who had murdered Mr. Beverley, had
halted to stare about him. His conscience perhaps disturbed him. Or he
imagined that he heard a sound, or saw a figure. Fear of capture and of
death unnerved him, and, giving credence to his imagination, he peered
amidst the jungle, and then fired his piece at some shadow. Yes, that
was what had happened, for Tyler could see with his own eyes the huge
patch where the shot had struck a tree close at hand and ripped the bark
from it.

"We shall have to be careful," he said, "or this fellow will be shooting
us as we come up with him. He is a desperate man, and will stop at
nothing."

"Looks as if he was daft," burst in John Marshall. "Seems to me as if
the trouble had turned his head. But the fellow's beckoning, sir. He
wants us to go ahead."

"He not far away. Soon find the Dutchman," said the Malay, dragging his
kriss from his pocket. "Shall he be killed, or taken a prisoner?"

"The last," was Tyler's answer, "for he has a crime to answer for. Come,
push ahead and let us capture him."

Once more the party of natives and Englishmen took up the trail, and
a mile farther on were rewarded by the sound of a rifle-shot which
suddenly rang out in the jungle. Instantly they redoubled their pace,
and did not halt till the leading Malay again threw his arms into the
air and motioned to them to do so. A moment or two later their eyes
fell upon the figure of Hanns Schlott. But what a change! Once a burly
individual, with enormous, unwieldy limbs and rounded cheeks, he was
now a haggard man. True, the time had been too short to allow of much
change in his weight or in his general appearance; but it was the
Dutchman's face and eyes which attracted attention, while the droop of
his head, the stoop of his broad shoulders, added to the change which
could be observed. No longer was he the leader of a band of pirates
whose ill fame had spread far and wide, and who committed any sort of
atrocity with impunity. He was a criminal escaping from the law, and
every shadow, each tree and bush, contained one of the pursuers. That
young Englishman who had been aboard the schooner when the murder of
Mr. Beverley was carried out was forever in his memory, and each object
which his imagination conjured into human shape was Tyler's figure. Our
hero's name was forever on his lips, and each shot from his smoking
rifle was meant to pierce his body.

