"That killed him! I saw the bullet strike on his body and perforate,"
the Dutchman was shouting as Tyler and his friends came up with the
fugitive.

"Ha, ha, ha! At last I have paid off the score. He said he would follow
me and hang me, and instead I drove him ashore. Then he went to Paddi
and robbed us of our prahus. For that my shot has paid. And now to give
him what is due, to return in full the trouble which he has caused me.
I will go within an inch of him, and will place the muzzle against his
ear. Then I shall be free."

As he spoke Hanns Schlott glared at one portion of the jungle, with eyes
which seemed to protrude from their sockets and to be capable of seeing
nothing else. Then he grasped his rifle with feverish hands, and in
spite of the fact that it was still hot rammed a charge in. Then another
thought came to his tortured mind, and he clutched his head in despair.

"Beaten!" he shouted in high-pitched tones. "Even then I am not sure of
my life, for there is another. The beggarly sailor, John Marshall they
called him, knew of the deed. He saw it, and swore, too, that he would
follow me to the end of the world. Of what use to struggle further?"

He paused in the process of ramming down a charge, and attempted to
consider the question. But his wits had gone astray, and, unable to
grasp the matter, his mind again turned to Tyler.

"What!" he screamed, suddenly facing about, and pointing at another part
of the jungle. "He is still alive and laughs at me. Ha!"

His face was like a demon's as, gun in hand, he crept stealthily towards
the spot in which he fancied his victim was hidden. The lips twitched
and were withdrawn from the teeth. The pallid cheeks hung loosely and
quivered, while the eyes blazed with the intensity of the madness which
filled him. Falling upon his hands and knees, he crawled softly across
the leaves and twigs as if anxious not to disturb his enemy. Then once
more the rifle came to his shoulder. There was a pause ere the trigger
was pressed, and then another report startled the jungle. Ere the echoes
had died down the madman had sprung forward and hurled himself upon a
twisted tree which he had imagined to be his victim.

