It was a terrible sight to look upon, and filled Tyler and his little
party with horror; for never before had it been their lot to watch
the ravings of a madman bereft of his senses through fear of the
consequences of his crime. It was horrible to watch, and our hero at
once decided to put a stop to it.

"His weapon is empty now," he whispered to his men, "and therefore we
will capture him. Separate at once and get into position. When you are
ready I will give the word, and we will make a rush. Quick! for I see
that he is sitting down and getting ready to ram down another charge."

Realizing the importance of haste in the matter, the tars rapidly
scattered, and ere long had formed a cordon about the madman. Then, at
a shout from Tyler they threw themselves upon him and made him their
prisoner. His weapon was taken from him and his arms bound, for he was
frantic with rage. Then the murderer, who had already suffered much for
his crime, was led back through the forest, and in the course of time
found his way to Singapore. But no gallows waited for him, for another
form of punishment was to be his. An asylum for criminal lunatics became
his home, where for years he dragged out a terrible existence. As for
Tyler, satisfied at the thought that he had done what was right in the
matter, he reported his arrival to his commander and waited for further
orders. Nor had he long to wait, for once Paddi had been destroyed, and
the pirates defeated, the expedition turned its attention to Pakoo,
which was easily captured. Then came the turn of Rembas, where severe
resistance was met with. But the British were not to be turned back,
and in spite of the hot fire directed against them, and the numbers of
the enemy, they pushed forward and took the place. Then, feeling that
they had done all that was possible, they returned to Sarawak with the
knowledge that a scourge had been put down, and that something more had
been done to bring about the peace for which the Rajah of Sarawak strove.

