The use of iron and steel as the materials for construction have enabled
sailing ships to be built in modern times of dimensions which could not
have been thought of in the olden days. These large vessels are chiefly
employed in carrying wheat and nitrate of soda from the west coast of
South America. Their structural arrangements do not differ greatly from
those of iron and steel steamers which are described in Part II.




APPENDIX.

DESCRIPTION OF A GREEK BIREME OF ABOUT 800 B.C.


During the year 1899 the British Museum acquired a new vase of the
Dipylon class, which was found near Thebes in Boeotia, and dates
from about 800 B.C. On one side of the vase are represented chariots
and horses, apparently about to start for a race. On the other side is
a painting of a complete bireme, which, on account of its antiquity
and the peculiarities of its structure is of extraordinary interest.
The galley in question, Fig. 74, is reproduced from an illustration,
traced direct from the vase, and published in the "Journal of Hellenic
Studies," vol. xix. (1899). The chief peculiarity of the construction
is that the rowers are seated upon a two-storied open staging, erected
upon a very shallow hull and extending from an elevated forecastle to
an equally raised structure at the stern. The stage, or platform, on
which the lower tier of oarsmen is seated, is supported by vertical
struts rising out of the body of the boat. The platform for the upper
stage is also supported by vertical struts, which rise, not from the
boat itself, but from an intermediate stage, situated between the two
tiers of rowers. In the absence of a plan it is not possible to say if
these platforms were floored decks, with openings cut in them, where
necessary, for the legs of the rowers; or if they were simply composed
of longitudinal beams connected by cross-pieces which served as seats,
or benches. The latter arrangement appears to be the more probable.
There are twenty oarsmen a-side, on the lower tier, and, apparently,
nineteen on the upper. No attempt is made by the artist to show more
than the rowers on one side, and, to avoid confusion, those on the two
tiers have their oars on the opposite sides of the galley, and only
one of the blades of the far side is shown. The men of the lower tier
rest their feet against supports fixed to the vertical struts which
support their platform, while those of the upper tier rest theirs,
apparently, upon the intermediate stage. The vessel is provided with a
large and a small ram, and is steered by means of two large paddles.
The prow ornament resembles a snake. In some of its features, notably
in the shape of the ram, the shallowness of the hull, and the height
and number of the stages, this galley resembles the Phoenician boat
of a somewhat later date, described on page 28. The arrangement of the
rowers is, however, totally different in the two cases, those in the
Phoenician vessel being all housed in the hull proper, while those
in the Greek galley are all placed on the stages. It is a curious
coincidence that the two specimens of galleys of the eighth and
seventh centuries B.C., of which we possess illustrations, should both
be provided with these lofty open stages.

