CAMP BORDEN                                           284

LONG BRANCH                                           288

DESERONTO                                             289

SPORTS                                                294

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS                                       302




AERIAL CONDITIONS ON THE WESTERN FRONT, 1916.


The battle of the Somme in the latter half of 1916 was the principal
factor leading to the formation of the Royal Flying Corps, Canada.
Aerial conditions on the Western Front were at this period of so
tense a nature that they may well be noted before proceeding to the
actual history of the Canadian brigade.

The following sketch makes no pretence of absolute accuracy. The data
available at the moment are not official, but are compiled from the
memories of several flying officers serving on the Western front at
the time. They may, however, be taken as fairly presenting not only
the development of the Royal Flying Corps, but also that of opposing
enemy aircraft at the period under consideration.

The British Expeditionary Force commenced operations in 1914 with
a flying arm of four squadrons or some fifty machines, of which no
less than thirty were destroyed during a severe storm at Christmas
time by the collapse of a large hangar at St. Omer, leaving on the
following day approximately 14 serviceable machines. At this time all
aeroplanes in both forces were unarmed.

It is difficult to say whether British or German made the first
aerial attack on an opposing machine, but it is undoubted that this
type of combat, coming how it may, found both sides unequipped with
the exception of such offensive power as might be secured with
rifle or revolver. British machines had been thus armed for months,
probably in anticipation of forced landings behind the German lines
and, without question, enemy aircraft were similarly provided.
There ensued a series of sporting encounters out of which grew the
necessity of arming aeroplanes with rapid-fire guns mounted mostly
on the top of the centre section so that bullets might clear the
propeller blade. This gun was operated by the pilot, who supplied the
sole method of forward shooting, while the observer, who was at that
time placed in the front seat, fired to the rear. A year and a half
afterwards, the method of shooting practically through the propeller
was evolved, which, gradually developing, has long since reached
mechanical perfection.

