FE8 Scout pusher biplane.
1 Lewis Gun swivelled in line
of flight.
Speed 100 m.p.h.
Climb 15,000 feet in 19 mins.
Service ceiling 18,000 feet.

Nieuport Scout tractor (French).
1 Lewis Gun over top of
prop. or swivelled.
Speed 100 m.p.h.
Climb 10,000 feet in 12 mins.
Service ceiling 19,000 feet.

_This was the first allied machine
to have a synchronized Vickers
or Lewis gun in 1916._

Spad Scout tractor biplane.
1 synchronized Vickers gun
firing in line of flight
through propeller.
Speed 120 m.p.h.
Climb 10,000 feet in 9 mins.
Service ceiling 20,000 feet.

In addition the British had a squadron or so of Sopwith 1½ Strutters,
very fast and handy 2-seater tractors with observer in rear. Also
some Bristol Scouts, Vickers pushers and Martynsydes.

[Illustration: ONE LESS HUN!

RICHTHOFEN’S CIRCUS.]

[Illustration: GERMAN “ALBATROSS.”

GERMAN “HALBERSTADT.”]

The German was in 1916 provided with a gun which did fire through the
propeller. This was on the Fokker. The advantage thus held by the
enemy was also increased by the fact that their two-seaters carried
pilots in front, thus affording the observer a better opportunity
of firing to the rear. Our BE2C, for instance, found itself under a
handicap in this respect. The downfall of the Fokker rests with the
DH2, a pusher machine, which gave the forward-seated pilot a clear
field of fire to the front. The DH2, in turn, yielded supremacy to
the German Albatross Scout, a fast and efficient fighting machine.
Thus went the battle, till in December, 1916, the Nieuport, Spad and
Sopwith Scouts were our kings of the air.

In April of this year began a concentration of British aerial force
on the Somme, where artillery observation was for the next three
months carried to the utmost in preparation for the great offensive
staged to commence in July. At first it seemed as though our machines
had the air to themselves, for up till the first week in June our
registration proceeded with practically no counter-battery work. So
quiet was this front, that one pilot reports that he cannot remember
seeing more than two German aeroplanes for six weeks.

