In June came greater activity on the part of the enemy, but it is
without question that we held superiority until September, if at
considerable cost. From September, however, to the middle of October,
the Royal Flying Corps had its work cut out to cope with the increase
in numbers and efficiency of German pilots, and the introduction of
two fast and improved fighting scouts, the Halberstadt and Albatross
D3 and D5.

On the Somme front, approximating twenty-five miles, we had about
twenty squadrons, equalling about 300 machines; these constituting
the majority of our aerial force in France. Twelve were disposed for
artillery work, the remainder for photography, reconnaissance and
fighting.

[Illustration: GERMAN PARABELLUM MOUNTING.

FIRST “FOKKER” MONOPLANE WITH SYNCHRONIZED GUN BROUGHT DOWN ON
WESTERN FRONT.]

[Illustration: LOADING POSITION.

LEWIS GUN ON NIEUPORT SCOUT.]

The battle proceeded with unprecedented intensity, and with it a
never-ending aerial warfare. Pilots were rushed from England with
a few hours’ solo work and absolutely no gunnery practice, to find
themselves instantly in the thick of the combat. It is, therefore,
not astonishing that the wastage of our fighting men ran up to
twenty-five per cent. per month.

The filling up of the Royal Flying Corps combatant strength was
made additionally difficult, as the Corps could no longer draw from
regimental officers now needed for the coming offensive by which it
was proposed to relieve the tremendous pressure on the French at
Verdun.

It is true that the strength of the Force was, in anticipation, more
than doubled during the three weeks which preceded the Somme, but
this largely exhausted the available supplies of fighting personnel.

How reasonable, therefore, that the established success of Canadian
pilots, and the fact that in Canada lay an almost untapped reservoir
of future strength, should turn the eyes of the War Office to that
Dominion. Double operations were planned for the Spring of 1917. The
need was instant and imperative.

