


OFFICIAL PRELIMINARIES.


Authority for the Royal Flying Corps, Canada, was given at the War
Office in December of 1916, and shortly after, on December 21st, an
important meeting took place at Adastral House, the headquarters of
the Air Board. Representatives from various branches of the service
were present, and the situation in Canada was fully discussed with
the following results.

Formation of squadrons was to be pushed at once, and personnel sent
out as opportunity offered. Recruiting offices were authorized,
also one large aircraft park, its location to be fixed later. As to
equipment, Curtiss machines had already been ordered and delivery
would commence almost at once from Buffalo. An establishment of 400
engines with a monthly wastage of 100 was considered reasonable.

The use of other machines was discussed but left in abeyance for
the meantime, and the meeting closed with the opinion that training
could be carried on in Canada the year round except in February, the
weather in that month being doubtful.

It was decided at the outset that everything of a business nature,
such as the erection of buildings, preparation of aerodromes,
purchase of supplies, etc., was to be handled by the Imperial
Munitions Board, through a Department of Aviation. This conclusion
was largely influenced by the fact that in correspondence with the
Ministry of Munitions, the Imperial Munitions Board had placed
itself at the disposal of the War Office to aid in the formation of
a Canadian training wing. Two engineer officers would be detailed to
act as advisers on buildings and aerodromes.

Such was the formal birth of the Royal Flying Corps, Canada. It may
be asked why it was purposed to recruit and train in Canada by the
agency of an Imperial wing, but it suffices to say that the work of
this unit has been only one of the countless instances of coöperation
between the mother country and the Dominion, that furthermore all
arrangements entered into carried not only the consent and approval
of the Canadian Government, but also the promise of every assistance,
and that the utter fullness of the discharge of this promise is known
best to those who are personally conversant with the various phases
of the history of this unit of the Royal Flying Corps.

