At the further meeting of the Air Board, held at Adastral House,
January 1st, 1917, the personnel of the advance party was selected.
The administration section consisted of the Officer Commanding, at
that time lieutenant-colonel; two squadron commanders--a major and
a captain; one flight commander--a captain; one flying officer--a
lieutenant. The supply section consisted of one park commander,
one first-class equipment officer and two second-class equipment
officers; these a major, captain and two lieutenants. Two engineer
officers, both majors--one of whom was of the Canadian Engineers and
the other from the Royal Engineers services--followed a little later.
The recruiting section, composed of a captain and three lieutenants,
completed the party. Mechanical transport of 21 vehicles was also
sent.

At this meeting the general premises governing the future operations
of the wing were outlined, such as the intention to give only lower
training in Canada, and liaison between the unit and the Imperial
Munitions Board. It was further determined to organize twenty
training squadrons. Owing to conditions in England at the moment,
the question of personnel for the formation of the Canadian wing was
difficult of solution, and it was stated quite frankly that the Royal
Flying Corps, Canada, would be obliged to do its utmost to train both
officers, non-commissioned officers and airmen for the various duties
to be performed.

General and personnel equipment was arranged to be sent from England,
but all machines and additional transport were to be obtained
locally. The general purport of the meeting was, in brief, to provide
the skeleton of a training unit, put this scanty personnel under the
direction of the O.C. and trust to their united efforts to provide
for that expanding output of partially trained pilots for which at
the time there was such insistent demand.

Coincident with all this, matters in Canada had already begun to take
shape. There was in Toronto a small aeroplane factory, which for the
past year or two had been turning out machines used at a private
flying school some nine miles from the city. Authority was received
by the Imperial Munitions Board from the Air Board to acquire this
organization, which, although its output was necessarily limited,
afforded an opportunity for future expansion, once suitable premises
were secured. The machinery and equipment of this undertaking were
forthwith moved into much larger buildings leased from a local
engineering works, and took shape as the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited,
an organization owned by the Imperial Government, whose product was
intended primarily to meet the requirements of the new Canadian wing.

