The Department, for purposes of efficiency, was subdivided into the
following sections: Executive, Purchasing, Construction, Transport,
and Aeronautical Supply--all responsible to the Director of Aviation,
and through him to the Imperial Munitions Board proper. The officers
were:

Director of Aviation    G. A. MORROW, ESQ., O.B.E.
Secretary               MR. GEO. E. WISHART.
Chief Engineer          MR. J. B. CARSWELL.
Asst. Chief Engineer    MR. J. R. HAGELIN.
Purchasing Agent        MR. A. H. MULCAHEY.
Asst. Purchasing Agent  MR. A. S. MCNINCH.
Supt. Aero. Supplies    MR. W. B. CLELAND.

The first section, composed of the Secretary and accountants, was
responsible for all expenditures, and made weekly detailed returns
to the Auditor of the Board in Ottawa. They dealt in millions, and
submitted vouchers for all disbursements, as well as reporting all
executive transactions. The advantage of this coöperation with the
parent organization which dealt in hundreds of millions, is obvious.

The Purchasing Section was manned by expert buyers in various
branches, and furnished the entire needs of the brigade with the
exception of rations, pay and medical service. Machinery, tools,
boots, oil--there were some ten thousand articles in Stores
Depot--all of which were secured by this section of the Department.

The Construction Section, since the autumn of 1917, erected all
buildings used by the brigade, and overhauled and remodelled other
premises secured for their use. At the outset of operations, various
contractors were employed--but, this practice terminated, the
Construction Section was organized under careful supervision of
competent engineers of the Aviation Department to perform these and
added duties. It purchased its own supplies and was responsible for
prices and quantities, as well as for a Commissary Department which
supplied employees with meals and accommodation.

Transportation--always a problem and especially so in wartime--was
entrusted to an expert railwayman, skilled in harassing railway
companies into good delivery. The moving of thousands of men to and
from Texas, with hundreds of carloads of supplies, came under this
section with most creditable results.

