During those months when contractors were employed in the erection
of buildings and other work, the Aviation Department was continually
represented at the contractor’s office by an auditing staff. These
officials checked all time worked, and all disbursements of every
nature on the part of the contractor. Such obligations were paid
by the latter, who then forwarded the receipted bills to the
Department. There they were recorded and sent on to Ottawa for
payment.

Extraneous accounting was done in the United States. When a large
part of the brigade went to Texas in November, 1917, the omnipresent
“I.M.B.” accompanied in the person of the Chief Purchasing Agent,
fortified with an imprest fund. This, deposited in the National City
Bank, permitted local payments, which in turn were submitted to
the Toronto Office with the necessary vouchers. In addition to all
the foregoing, the Board at Ottawa was represented by a travelling
auditor who checked all expenditure before it was submitted to
Ottawa. Thus the Chief Auditor was kept constantly informed, and
enabled to make regular reports to the Ministry of Munitions in
England of all disbursements by the Aviation Department.

On page 58 will be found a monthly total of these amounts, as
apart from expenditure by the brigade. It is impossible to make
comparisons, but it is nevertheless believed that in no section of
any military organization has better value been secured for the
amount involved.

The Purchasing Section, up to January 1st, 1919, issued 15,700 orders
and handled 37,300 invoices. Business of this magnitude demands
system, and in this case got it. On page 35 is a diagram showing not
only the procedure of purchase, but also the history of invoices when
received, reflecting the coöperation between consumer and purchaser
to secure assurance of the delivery of what has been ordered, before
payment.

Mention has been made of the variety of the purchases arranged by
this section, and to this might be added the fact that extremely
large quantities were involved.

