The Transportation Section was indebted to the wonderful coöperation
of contractors and railway companies for assistance in overcoming
delays due to this congestion, as well as to the great shortage of
raw material.

Business between the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Corporation and the
British Ministry of Munitions was carried in the Section’s purchasing
ledgers, as well as records of all shipments from the Canadian
Aeroplanes Limited to the Signal Service of the U.S. Government. The
amount of material shipped to Texas in 1917 from the factory amounted
to not less than four and a half million dollars. This was a mutually
acceptable arrangement by which training in the U.S. was carried
out most successfully and the output of the factory maintained at a
satisfactory point.

Conjointly with the Purchasing Section, there must be considered its
kindred bureau, the Traffic Branch. This body traced and delivered
all materials to their proper destination, checked all freight and
express bills, and applied them against their proper invoices and
orders. Investigation of conditions governing freight rates was a
special study, and in one instance the Traffic Branch was able to
prove to the Canadian Freight Association that the minimum carload
weight previously required on shipments of aeroplanes and spares was
in point of fact unjustified considering the light nature of the
material. This was subsequently increased, resulting in a marked
saving in the transportation of such material to and from the
various camps. The Texas movement involved 375 cars and 5,000 men.
This was an admirably managed undertaking, so successful that within
five days from the date of leaving Canada our machines were climbing
into the air above Texas aerodromes.

[Illustration: CONSTRUCTION OF SWIMMING POOL, CAMP BORDEN.

(Under Direction of Aviation Department.)]

[Illustration: RANGES CONSTRUCTED BY AVIATION DEPARTMENT AT
BEAMSVILLE.]

The Section of Aeronautical Supply, as has been stated, maintained
liaison between the Aircraft Equipment Branch of the brigade and the
factory; also it acted as a buffer state between the brigade and
the manufacturer of such technical equipment as cameras, wireless
instruments, machine guns, etc., and the tremendous number of spare
parts involved.

