The progress in the training of pilots has from time to time demanded
new equipment of multitudinous variety. The advanced nature of the
work of both aeroplane and engine repair park called for a steady
stream of those individual members which when assembled constitute
the completed machine. The selection, purchase, and delivery of the
technical equipment of the brigade, fell in short to this section,
which executed the business transactions involved as required by the
Aircraft Equipment Branch at headquarters.

Liaison between the two has been admirable, and the result,
therefore, eminently satisfactory.

The Construction Section has, in the course of its strenuous
existence, carried out the following work:

6½  miles of railways.
22½  miles of roadways.
18   miles of water mains.
10   miles of sewers.
27   miles of aerodrome drainage.
300   miles of telephone and power lines.
26   individual steam heating plants.
6   central steam heating plants.
400   buildings using 18 million feet of lumber.

It had, furthermore, put in five thousand plumbing fixtures; cleaned,
rolled and seeded nearly four thousand acres of land for flying
purposes, and done a commissary business which touched forty thousand
meals a week.

In these activities it spent five and a half million dollars.

From all of which it may be seen that what was accomplished equals
the building of a modern town with streets, sanitation of every
description and every physical equipment.

Had it been a town the work had been easier, but as it was there were
many areas, with two hundred miles between extreme points.

In dispensing with contractors and assuming itself all obligations
the Department was swayed by but one fact. The requirements of the
brigade were so varying and so subject to training considerations,
that it seemed impossible to adequately provide for all contingencies
by contract. The change took place in the autumn of 1917, and in
the months that followed the Munitions Board profited by unity of
control, by the opportunity of large bulk purchases of material, and
by every consequent advantage accruing to a single organization which
directs many scattered operations.

