[Illustration: FUSELAGE ASSEMBLY.

SAILMAKING ON WINGS.]

The machine adopted for use by the Royal Flying Corps was the
Canadian JN4, of simple design and presenting no unusual difficulty
in manufacture. As work progressed, however, it became apparent
that the type could be largely improved by change of design and
fabrication, and there was evolved a machine which, while presenting
the same appearance as its predecessor, contained nevertheless
certain fundamental and radical alterations. Among other points
remodelled were the landing gear--the substitution of the “joy stick”
for the former control wheel, the adoption of split trailing edge
instead of flattened tubing, and, most important, tail units made
principally of metal instead of wood, resulting in an increased
factor of safety, especially in the rudder and vertical stabilizer.
Progress without change is impossible, and thus it proved in this
undertaking.

It will be understood that given soundness of design there remains
to be provided good workmanship and the best and most suitable
materials. The former was procured without much difficulty, but the
supply of the latter involved much thought and experiment, it being
always remembered that the ideal machine combines a maximum strength
with a minimum weight.

Linen for the covering of wings, etc., was imported first from
Ireland, but submarine activity made it imperative that a substitute
be secured. It was found at the Wabasso Cotton Company’s mills in
Three Rivers, Quebec. Here was secured, for the special purpose
required, a cotton fabric of remarkable strength. One inch in width
is able to support some eighty pounds, and this with a weight which
does not exceed four and a half ounces a square yard. Its adoption
was at once successful, and it proved capable, when treated with
“dope”--a waterproof and windproof solution with celluloid-like
finish--of performing the same service as that of the most expensive
Irish linen.

After fabric came wood, the quality of which was required to be
above anything hitherto known in the lumber trade. Free from knots,
of extreme length, with no “wind shakes,” swirly grain or “pitch
pockets,” it seemed at first unprocurable. Ash for the longerons or
longitudinals of the fuselage, and spruce for wing beams, wing edges,
etc., was of imperative necessity. The market was searched, but what
material was available proved to yield but a fraction of its total
in satisfactory timber. Then, driven by urgent need, the “I.M.B.”
organized a department in Vancouver and began to buy for itself on
the shores of the Pacific. That its first purchase was rushed by
express in carloads from the Western Coast will indicate how extreme
was the pressure for sound material. The illustrations on pages 32
and 34 give some idea of the magnitude of the operations required
to produce that exact quality of lumber which the modern aeroplane
demands.

