It is interesting to note that even with this admirable supply
secured, it was found that certain members were so long that it
proved necessary to build them up, and, in the building, the Canadian
Aeroplanes Limited evolved a scarfed, saw-toothed splice, since
adopted as standard by Britain and the United States. Repeated tests
proved that greater strength was thus secured than that of solid
lumber of the same dimensions.

The Canadian Aeroplanes Limited propeller is five-ply white oak,
glued, compressed and formed up by machinery that is almost
human--and took its origin from a lathe designed by Peter the Great
to make gun stocks. It is a far cry from Russia to Toronto, but the
principle is identical. No “C.A.L.” propeller has shown manufacturing
or engineering defect. The successor of Peter’s lathe carves them,
four at a time, to one thirty-second of their finished form, and the
final touches and balancing are hand work. To anyone who has seen
a nine-foot propeller running at 1,500 revolutions per minute, its
blade points cutting the air at the rate of eight miles a minute,
it will be apparent how fine a workmanship and accurate a design is
embodied here.

From wood pass to metal. Fuselage and internal wing bracing is with
piano-wire which will stand a pull of a ton, though the members to
which it is anchored weigh but a few pounds. Inter-plane bracing
will live up to a ton and a half, and the control wires will stand
the same test. So accurate are these latter that in process of their
manufacture the heated metal is drawn through a forming die made of
an aperture in a diamond.

In the autumn of 1918 it was decided to undertake the manufacture
of a faster and more modern type of machine--the Avro--and to
this object the factory diverted its energies. At the date of the
armistice two had been turned out. These machines, equipped with
130 horse-power Clerget engines, promised excellent service, and
underwent all tests to the complete satisfaction of all concerned. No
less than one hundred additional had been fabricated and were ready
for assembly when hostilities ceased.

