Design--material--workmanship--inspection! These are the four
cardinal features of the modern machine. That all have been amply
provided in the output of the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited is best
evidenced by the fact that not a single one of nearly three thousand
aeroplanes turned out has been charged with any accident attributable
to any fault in design or manufacture.

From aeroplane to flying boat was a natural transition in an
organization so finely balanced and completely equipped, and in
April, 1918, the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited undertook to build for
the United States navy a fleet of 30 F-5 flying boats, the largest
produced to date on this side of the Atlantic. The contract involved
competition with two other companies. The latter had been in the
business from two to four years, and had on hand not only ample
material but also a large staff of assembling mechanics. In the race
that followed, the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited finished three weeks
ahead--an illustration of the fact that the best type of organization
is that which is not so wedded to one class of output as to be
unable to adapt its methods and its plant to kindred, if varying,
undertakings. So satisfactory was the work to the U.S. authorities,
that it called forth the following letter from the American admiral
in charge:--

“On account of the excellent workmanship of Canadian Aeroplanes
shown in the construction of navy flying boats, the bureau is
glad to recommend the facilities of your plant, and it is hoped
that additional work in aircraft construction may be secured
elsewhere.”

The feat was not without effort. The thirty boats contracted for
have been delivered, the first being turned out within three months
from receipt of order. The shipments included spares to the extent
of one additional boat in every three, exclusive of hull. It was not
necessary to engage any additional staff, but it was necessary to
give the training required to convert the aeroplane builder into the
boat builder. This construction filled in a period between orders
for machines for the Royal Air Force, but it involved the purchasing
of special material from the United States, in which market the U.S.
competitors of the company were already firmly established.

