[Illustration: PHOTOGRAPHY.

ARTILLERY OBSERVATION SENDING STATIONS.]

[Illustration: TESTING RIGGING.

FILLING UP.]

His wireless was carried on to receiving and sending eight words
a minute, and instruction was given in such a way that he was
untroubled by the presence of the cadet beside him, because that
cadet received and sent with a different wave length of transmission
current. Panneau (see illustration on page 199) was read at four
words a minute and practice alternated with the use of Aldis signal
lamps. Ground strips, reproduced electrically in miniature, required
correct reading. The method of locating flashes (symbolic of shell
bursts) on clock coding target (page 158) demanded special attention
to the point of locating ten successive flashes.

Came then aerial navigation, the knowledge of which is essential to
all who travel by air. An extremely interesting study this, covering
sketching, compass work--both magnetic and prismatic, definitions and
conventional signs used--in fact all such information as is necessary
not only to read intelligently and quickly any civil or military
map and absorb the information often so vitally necessary, but also
to construct one which shall be legible for general military and
artillery purposes.

It follows, then, that the cadet when he arrived at the School of
Aeronautics had already moulted much of the civilian. The plumage of
the pilot was beginning to sprout.

At this point his education was carried still further. He applied
his map-reading knowledge to an immense reproduction of part of
the actual theatre of war, showing whole battlefields in faithful
outline. He studied the plotting of an aerial course from point to
point, with a given wind velocity and speed of aeroplane. He delved
into air and weather conditions in northern France and learned what
targets looked like when seen from the air. He began photography,
the study of artillery work, zone call systems and those simple yet
enormously important and pre-arranged signals between battery and
aeroplane. Here, too, he was introduced to the science of bombing.

