Moving on to engines of various types, he absorbed their principles
of design and operation--with practical work on the engines
themselves which were set up on running stands at Camp Leaside and
subjected to every temporary indisposition imaginable in order that
the pupil might diagnose and remedy the trouble (page 83). With
the engines he studied the design of the aeroplane, assembling and
dismantling till its structure became simple and familiar (page
172). Coincident with all this was his education as a soldier, with
lectures in military law, procedure, the organization of various arms
of the service, the internal economy of R.A.F. squadrons, wings,
parks and depots and the various phases of active service duty.

Congested as it may appear, there was in actuality no congestion.
This was due not only to the fact that instruction was invariably
progressive, but also such mechanical inventiveness had been
displayed by the staff that whenever practical instruction involving
mechanics of any nature was given, there was always produced the
relative mechanical device which showed the practical application of
the theory and demonstrated quite unmistakably its physical character.

From the School of Aeronautics to which further reference is made
(page 162) the cadet proceeded to the Armament School. In the chapter
under this heading his course is sufficiently outlined, and by the
time he arrived at a flying wing he had mastered the theoretical and
mechanical essentials of the principles and appliances which were to
control his further development.

It was recognized that if instruction in wireless ceased on arrival
at the wings, the pupil at once became rusty in these requirements,
and, from the commencement of the Corps, work classes were invariably
held in this and kindred subjects at all flying units.

Now came the time to which the cadet had been looking forward since
his enlistment. Entrusted to a competent instructor, he embarked
on flying tuition. Here also was practice in aerial photography,
vertical and oblique, and bomb dropping by wireless, in which the
pilot signalled the release of an imaginary bomb, the message being
received by an observer in a camera obscura hut, who noted also the
position of the machine at the instant of release. Formation and
fifty-mile cross-country flights were practised, the former as in
active service, the latter giving opportunity for map reading in the
air, and the actual collection of a variety of information which
paralleled the duty to be performed at the front.

