Here, too, the cadet climbed to 6,000 feet and remained at this
height for fifteen minutes. He flew through clouds guided by compass,
read ground strips and Aldis lamp signals, and in general comported
himself exactly as though in the air over enemy country, and when
he ultimately reported at Camp Leaside it was as a skilled pilot
thoroughly at home in his machine and ready for the two final periods
of his instruction.

At Leaside, the 43rd Wing, came final tuition in artillery
coöperation. Here the cadet absorbed to his capacity all that science
and a particularly brilliant system of instruction could give him.
The picture target of former days was reproduced on a huge scale,
and from work on this the pupil took to the air. From an altitude of
2,000 feet he noted bursts presumed to be those of batteries, located
them on his map and wirelessed their position to the receiving
battery station, correcting and directing its fire. Information was
sent down describing the effect of barrage fire, the movement of
troops, the location of wire and similar details. Contact patrol work
was studied, as was indeed every feature of artillery coöperation
duty, even to the wearing of gauntlets when sending wireless.

All through the period of training his physical condition was
regarded as of prime importance; and continual exercises, so arranged
as to develop every bodily power, and, in consequence, every
mental activity, were faithfully practised. The result was a human
mechanism, fit and alert, sound and responsive, and capable of being
brought to the highest possible pitch of efficiency.

At the School of Aerial Fighting came the last step in the
development of the pilot. Armed with Vickers and Lewis guns he went
through a final course of ground gunnery which demonstrated the
problems and mechanics of the art of shooting to the last degree.
Taking to the air, first with another pilot, he shot at full-sized
silhouettes anchored in Lake Ontario a mile from shore. Later, armed
with a camera gun loaded with film, he undertook aerial practice
on a brother cadet, the developed film showing the accuracy of his
aim. Aerial tactics were carried out, and every imaginable manoeuvre
of attack and escape has been observable for months at this most
interesting of camps. Finally, equipped mentally and physically, with
all that the British Empire could do for him, he left for either
overseas as the highest product of the R.A.F., Can., or to the School
of Special Flying to be tested as an instructor, an equally arduous
but more thankless undertaking.

