At Armour Heights were the squadrons detailed to give instruction in
what is known as the Armour Heights course. The aerodrome lies some
five miles north of Toronto. Here accommodation was provided for 58
officers, 56 cadets, 32 warrant officers and sergeants and 188 rank
and file. The type of building and general arrangement of the station
did not present any features varying noticeably from other camps,
but this unit was always the object of much interest to visitors on
account of the advanced flying at all times observable. The output
of instructors here graduated has been vital to the success of the
Corps, and the keenness and enthusiasm displayed was undoubtedly
fostered by the brilliant example set by the flight commander who for
many months was in charge. His record has been worthily maintained.

[Illustration: PART OF AERODROME, LEASIDE.]

[Illustration: PART OF BEAMSVILLE AERODROME.]




BEAMSVILLE CAMP.


The site of the School of Aerial Fighting was selected in the
autumn of 1917. Actual preparation of some 300 acres comprising
the aerodrome began, and the work of building was in full swing by
December. Climatic conditions approximated those at Camp Borden
some twelve months previously, it being a winter of severe cold and
high winds, but so earnestly was construction pushed that the camp
stood ready for occupation when the School of Aerial Gunnery, as it
then was, returned from Texas at the beginning of April, 1917. This
provision did not at the time include barracks for cadets and rank
and file.

As will be understood, complete equipment was provided for gunnery
practice, the several ranges running from 25 to 200 yards. These
were furnished with a diversity of targets for surprise deflection,
miniature aeroplane and disappearing target work, the type of butt
here constructed proving extremely satisfactory.

Full sized silhouettes of machines, riding on anchored rafts, were
also set out in Lake Ontario a mile or so from shore, it having
already been established in practice over Lake Worth, Texas, that
firing over the water was of great value, owing to the accuracy with
which registration could be made and also the excellent opportunity
given of arriving at a proper diving angle. Beamsville provided all
such advantages, and practice was further stimulated by the use of a
fast armour-clad launch, which, travelling at top speed, offered an
unusually good target.

