As work developed, it became clear that the School was in point of
fact one of tuition in aerial fighting, the practice of tactics
forming a large part of the instruction given. Its nomenclature was
in consequence altered in July, 1918.

In the summer of this year, a fourth squadron was organized and
housed, and steps taken to provide permanent accommodation for all
ranks. This programme included additional officers’ quarters, and
the construction of about a dozen large buildings on the hillside
which previously held the tents of the unit. The work had just been
completed at the date of the armistice, when the accommodation at
this station was sufficient for 122 officers, 400 cadets, 96 warrant
officers and sergeants and 768 rank and file.

Other services covered an excellent supply of pure water from the
lake, a complete drainage system, and ample electrical facilities
from the circuits of the Dominion Power and Transmission Company
of Hamilton, from which city Beamsville is some twenty-three miles
distant to the eastward.

The trip from Toronto by air was always of interest, paralleling
the south shore of Lake Ontario to the long sandspit that cuts off
Hamilton Bay from the main lake, along this curving bar and thence
over orchard and vineyard along the edge of the great escarpment over
which, a little further eastward, plunges the Niagara River. This
area is appropriately called the garden of Canada, and the unit found
itself fortunate in its surroundings.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STRENGTH, SCHOOL OF AERIAL FIGHTING,
BEAMSVILLE.]

[Illustration: GROUND INSTRUCTIONAL SECTION--CAMP MOHAWK.]




INSPECTION.


The Aeroplane Inspection Department took the responsibility of
determining whether every aeroplane and every engine bought by
the Royal Air Force, Canada, complied with the rigid requirements
laid down as necessary before acceptance. That the duties of this
organization were, in point of fact, admirably carried out, is
evident in the splendid results secured by the brigade in flying duty.

