Lastly comes inspection of final assembly; this formerly applied
to every machine, but rigging and adjusting before leaving the
factory was ultimately reduced to every sixth, results being
found acceptable. Here the same rigid method was carried out,
and examination release sheets were filled in. If results were
satisfactory, these were signed by the Aeroplane Inspection
Department, and a copy passed on to the Aircraft Equipment Branch
of the R.F.C., the latter refusing each and all deliveries not thus
vouched for. So satisfactorily had the system worked out, that at
the request of the brigade the Aeroplane Inspection Department
installed their representatives to pass upon the work of the Engine
and Aeroplane Repair Parks of the brigade.

[Illustration: “A PANCAKE.”

WHAT A MACHINE DID TO A DERRICK--PILOT UNHURT.

COLLISION.]

[Illustration: 92ND SQUADRON, CAMP BORDEN--OFFICERS AND MECHANICS.]

[Illustration: FORMATION. GLIDING HOME.

MACHINE SEEN THROUGH A VERTICAL “BANK.”]

[Illustration: AEROPLANE REPAIR--CAMP MOHAWK.]

In British Columbia, the A.I.D. gave valuable services by the passing
of all aeroplane lumber purchased by the Imperial Ministry of
Munitions for aeroplane purposes, and from this source was drawn raw
material required by Canadian factories. The quantities handled were
very large, as much as four and a half million feet being inspected
in the course of a month. Other services were the supervision of the
manufacture of the many engines purchased by the brigade from the
Curtiss Aeroplane and Engine Company in the United States.

In order that there might be a thorough consensus upon all technical
questions, there was formed shortly after arrival of the R.A.F. an
Aircraft Advisory Board. This consisted of representatives from
the factory, from the R.A.F. and from the A.I.D., and dealt with
the question of any changes required or contemplated in machines.
It is hardly necessary to add that no alterations were actually
made without conference between the Board and the A.I.D. The chief
inspector states that always and under all circumstances the greatest
possible harmony has existed between his organization and that of the
R.A.F.

