


THE INSTRUCTOR.


Flying instructors are, for the most part, too good to be sent
overseas. This is a bald and possibly astonishing statement. The rest
are usually those who, being incapacitated at the front from further
active duty, spend the rest of their service imparting valuable
knowledge to others. From which it may be seen that the appointment
is highly honourable as well as arduous.

In the early days of the R.F.C., Canada, the job was not as exacting
as in the later months of the R.A.F., Canada. The instructor was
then a man who could fly. To-day he is still a man who can fly,
but has, to boot, a peculiar and well developed art of infusing
his own skill and courage into the pupil by following a certain
recognized procedure which has been demonstrated to be the last
word in training. There is nothing in this derogatory to the early
instructors. Their work was admirable. In a sense they took even
greater risks, owing to the slight preliminary training then afforded
to pupils before going up. But the instructor of to-day is one who
himself has been instructed not only in the mechanics and dynamics of
flight, but also in that inductive process by which he acquires the
complete confidence of his pupil. It will be understood therefore,
that on the introduction of the more modern system of training, to
which reference is made on page 211, it was necessary to re-examine
all instructors and make sure that their abilities equalled the new
requirements. In addition it was constantly necessary to be sure that
instructors were not growing stale in their work.

[Illustration: 85TH SQUADRON--CAMP MOHAWK.]

[Illustration: ON THE WESTERN FRONT.]

While there is undoubted fascination in flying, the sensation begins
to pall after hundreds of hours in the air in a slow machine which
circles somewhat monotonously over areas of which every detail has
long since been memorized. The Canadian JN4 is considered reliable,
with vagaries too slight to demand much attention, and a most
excellent machine for instructional purposes. It is not as inherently
stable as some others, but instruction on a stable machine would not
have been as desirable as on one which required constant if simple
control, and effected its higher manoeuvres by acquired momentum and
not by engine power.

