In Canadian flying therefore, per se, there is nothing particularly
attractive for the instructor. The most unstable element is provided
by the cadet, and it has been remarked that at the outset “he has
many opportunities for error and usually discovers them all.”
To anyone who has observed a machine reeling unsteadily around
an aerodrome under the guidance of a fledgling pilot, while his
instructor sits impassively in the seat of danger, it will be
apparent that the latter has attained an abnormal degree of pluck and
composure. It is a point of honour with him not to assume control
until it is obviously imperative, and even then there is danger lest
the pupil, in an excess of fear, cling desperately to the stick and
bring about disaster.

With the instructor must be placed the second in command of
squadrons. To this officer falls the responsibility of conducting
the “pool,” through which all pupils pass before being posted out.
Here take place those final tests which determine the cadet’s
proficiency. Failing in any one, the pupil is returned for further
tuition. To this officer, therefore, the squadron commander looks for
the ultimate approval of the work of every cadet, as well for the
satisfactory condition of instructors and aerodrome discipline.

There are compensations, however, if no guarantee of personal
security. To the instructor, for instance, there is always interest
in the never-ending tide of cadets, their personalities, their
characteristics as developed in the air and their progress. A
cadet’s first solo flight brings, if successful, a peculiar pride to
the man who taught him to fly, but if not successful a self-searching
to determine what link in the armour of tuition has been weak--for
the instructor is held responsible for the crash.

The wing examining officer was called into existence by the
introduction of the Gosport system, which in itself has been
developed and modified to suit Canadian conditions. The first
result of this introduction was that it became necessary to comb
out instructors, some of whom had been too long on the job and were
“stale,” others too old, others too young to be entirely steady, and
others who, though excellent pilots, could not adopt the principles
and psychology evolved. Still others needed instruction themselves.
To this end the School of Special Flying was established at Armour
Heights under a brilliant pilot. A steady supply of well-trained men
was assured by the operations of this unit.

