Early in the year 1918, the instructors at every wing were put under
the wing examining officer, whose duty it was to weed out those who
got stale, to test the abilities of all new instructors from time to
time, and form his own opinion of their instructional capacity. In
addition, it was the obligation of this officer, to investigate the
log book of every machine which crashed, and demand an explanation of
any apparent discrepancies, and also to keep knowledge of all crashes
so as to determine whether any one instructor was responsible for an
unreasonable number. In the case of the latter being evident, it was
palpable that the instructor was either stale or too young for his
work, and he was forthwith sent overseas, where usually under the new
and much-longed-for stimulant he did admirably.

[Illustration: OFF TO WORK--CAMP BORDEN.]

[Illustration: “STUNTING” AT ARMOUR HEIGHTS.]

A mind of peculiar judgment is required to find its chief
satisfaction in the achievements of others. This is demanded of all
instructors. Deprived of the tremendous incentive of contact with
the enemy, isolated, as it were, in a daily repetition of duties
that afford little variety, constantly speeding off others to that
thrilling destination where they fain would be--others who owe to
them their fitness to go--such is the every-day grind.

And yet how tremendously it has all counted! A large part of the
work of the brigade was in preparing cadets to a point at which they
were deemed worthy of flying instruction. Toward that honourable
object was directed a vast amount of effort. Decorations were often
subsequently won by pupils whose instructors plugged doggedly along
the same old road. There was no publicity, and only junior--very
junior rank. Here, therefore, is given earnestly and officially, the
grateful thanks of the General Officer Commanding to those men who
by their unfailing readiness and pluck have had so splendid a part
in turning out the pilots the brigade has been privileged to send
overseas.

