


THE MEDICAL SERVICE.


The R.A.F., Canada, is indebted to many Canadian authorities and
organizations for assistance rendered, but to none is the debt
greater than to the Canadian Army Medical Corps for supplying the
personnel from which the medical service of the Royal Air Force has
from time to time been built up. The request was made in January by
the Imperial Government that the Canadian Militia Department should
supply this service. Prompt action was taken, and from a small
beginning there has been formed a complete corps of medical officers,
medical orderlies and nurses, skilled not only in everyday practice
but also in the special work called for at flying camps.

The original intention was to supply only a small camp hospital,
with one medical officer and the necessary orderlies at the various
aerodromes, but it was soon determined that the work of the Medical
Corps covered a much wider range than was anticipated. Almost the
first need was that of skilled orderlies who were specially trained
in first aid. Owing to calls from overseas, the available number
of men was very small, and it was found imperative that the senior
medical officer of the R.A.F. provide the necessary training.
Coincident with this came a further need of isolation hospitals,
which, although the general health of the brigade was maintained at
an unusually high standard, were found to be essential in order that
the work of training might not suffer in the least degree.

[Illustration: MEDICAL OFFICER AND STAFF, DESERONTO.]

[Illustration: HOSPITAL--CAMP BORDEN.

“HUNGRY LIZZIE.”]

The responsibilities undertaken by the medical department were made
the more onerous, not only because an extremely low percentage of
class “A” men were enlisted--and these only owing to their possession
of invaluable technical ability, but also because the community at
large suffered from severe civilian epidemics of scarlet fever and
influenza. Surgical work, with dental surgery--which latter covered
many major operations owing to crashes resulting in broken jaws and
teeth--comprised a considerable part of the duties performed.

