A modern operating room was completely furnished at each aerodrome,
together with X-ray equipment at the “out-stations.” In the autumn of
1917, the medical orderlies were further aided by the introduction
of nursing sisters. For these also we are indebted to the Canadian
Army Medical Corps, and without question their work has been of the
highest possible advantage. Thus, by degrees, the medical staff of
the Royal Air Force increased its personnel, the burden of its duties
and the value of its services.

Ambulance equipment was of prime importance. A Packard machine,
provided with a special type of shock absorbers and every possible
requisite, not only for first aid but also for fire extinguishing,
was stationed at each field, and remained on constant and watchful
duty from the time the first aeroplane took the air till the skies
were empty for the night. So close was the lookout, that “first
aid” was often tearing full-powered to the rescue before the crash
completed its descent. The ground traversed being often rough and
devoid of roads, it was imperative that the ambulances be perfectly
cushioned, lest the condition of “shock” as frequently found in
“crash” be aggravated by the journey home. It is hardly conceivable
that there could have been found vehicles better designed for the
purpose than those selected, and unquestionably lives were saved
in consequence of their use. Chemical extinguishers and asbestos
blankets, the latter introduced for protection of the pilot in case
the crash was in flames, were also carried as part of the equipment.

For winter purposes at outlying stations, the aerial ambulances shown
herewith were evolved. With a wide radius, landings could have been
made in any suitable, snow-covered place, however inaccessible by
motor transport. They were never to be used by the R.A.F., Canada.

In this connection it is interesting to note the degree to which
the duties of the medical officers in flying camps varied from the
more or less regulated routine met with in other services. The
senior medical officer has, from time to time, instilled into his
staff certain axioms for their constant guidance. It has been, for
instance, necessary that the medical officer in flying camps become,
as far as possible, the confidant and adviser of all ranks. It is
advisable that he himself get into the air as soon as feasible, and
that the machine which carries him be put through all evolutions,
in order to acquaint him with the physical phenomena of flying. No
machine must leave the ground unless the medical officer on duty is
within reach, nor must the latter leave the aerodrome while there
is a machine in the air. A further responsibility is that he must
pronounce upon the fitness of all cadets and flying officers to take
the air, and, further, without hesitation, prevent any man from
going up who is, in his opinion, unfit. As routine work he must also
conduct a monthly physical inspection of all cadets, and be present
at all “test flights.”

