The psychological side of medical service takes on new proportions
in a flying camp. The personality and characteristics of the patient
in question must be always kept in mind so that when investigating
air sickness the medical officer may determine whether it is real or
assumed. The question of fear, i.e., “aerophobia,” in its actuality,
and any loss of nervous control, must be established if existing--and
obversely. Any excitement or tension must be carefully distinguished
from natural recklessness or other characteristics of what is termed
a “thrusting disposition.”

An exhaustive study of the ideal pilot established the fact that he
should have an acute and correct sense of equilibrium. This does not
appear so essential for an observer, who if he is fairly safe in the
air and does not become giddy in stunting, may prove acceptable.

The “rotation tests,” described in detail below, have proved that as
regards a great number of successful pilots--referring to those who
have flown 100 hours and more,--in no case has a man been discovered
who has not conformed to the above standards laid down for admission
to the brigade. Above all there is demanded a sound physical
condition, by which alone all bodily functions will respond normally.

The following data are taken verbatim from memoranda issued by
the senior medical officer and authorized by the G.O.C. for the
information of medical and flying officers:--

“For the information of the flying officer, a short explanation of
the phenomena of equilibrium may not be out of place. Deep in the
bones of the skull, in close connection with the hearing apparatus,
lie, one set on each side, a series of three minute canals, filled
with a clear fluid and lined with a membrane intimately connected by
delicate nervous elements with the brain.

“These canals, each corresponding to half of the arc of a circle, are
about half an inch in length, have a diameter of about one-twentieth
of an inch and inter-communicate. They lie in the three dimensions
or planes of space, and it is primarily due to movements in the
contained fluid acting on the delicate nerve terminals, which are
directly connected with the brain through fibres of the Vill nerve,
that man is enabled to maintain the equilibrium of the body. It may
be of interest to note at this point that the corresponding system
in birds shows the extremely high degree of development one would
expect. Knowing that to be a successful pilot a man must have an
accurate and delicate perception of his position in relation to
the earth, it is readily seen how intimately the internal ear, its
adjuncts, and the problems involved in aeronautics are related. It
should be understood that the canals mentioned above have nothing to
do with the sense of hearing.

