“Close to these, and in the same portion of the bone, lie two others
closely resembling the spiral canals found in conch shells, and it
is on these canals, also filled with fluid and lined with cells
connected to the brain by fine nervous filaments, that we rely for
our auditory impressions. It has been proved that not only dizziness,
but also nausea and vomiting, all untoward symptoms frequently
encountered in airmen, are closely connected with lesions or
functional disturbances of the labyrinth of the auditory apparatus.

“In order to test the action of these canals, the contained fluid
may be set in motion by rotating the body. This is most readily done
by seating the patient in a revolving chair, and so, with the head
in different planes, testing the different canals in turn. It has
been found that pilots experiencing difficulty in flying, especially
in maintaining equilibrium, and those who are troubled with vertigo
or nausea, often show abnormal reactions, and it is for this reason
that these tests are employed. These ‘rotation’ or ‘turning tests’
have been used for a considerable time in connection with diseases of
the internal ear and in the diagnosis of lesions of the brain, but
it is only recently, as a result of experimental work, that their
application to aeronautics has been demonstrated and proved to be of
practical value.

[Illustration: OPERATING ROOM. CAMP BORDEN HOSPITAL.]

[Illustration: WINTER CRASHES.]

“In the ‘nystagmus test’ the applicant is first spun in the chair
exactly ten times in twenty seconds, accurately checked with a stop
watch. The examiner now carefully observes certain lateral, jerking
movements of the eyes which normally appear, but should cease on an
average in twenty-six seconds. A certain variation is allowed from
the normal time, and cadets for pilots not conforming to this test
should not be allowed to fly. In it the head is tilted forward to an
angle of thirty degrees in order to stimulate only those canals which
lie in the horizontal plane.

