“The practical deduction is that in good pilots the ocular
oscillations must not vary to any considerable extent, say not more
than ten to twelve seconds; on the other hand the lower or shorter
the time the better a man should be able to stand the violent swaying
of a captive balloon, since it is this motion above all others that
produces the most intense nausea and emesis. Following the above to
its logical conclusion, we in practice reject men who show too high
a nystagmus time, and recommend for observers, and especially for
balloonists, those showing sluggish reactions.”

Failure to conform to either the pointing or falling reactions
required are good and sufficient reasons to reject applicants for
cadet pilots.

It is probable that to the layman much of the foregoing will be found
technical and scientific, but to the investigator into the physical
and psychical phenomena induced by flying, it should be of direct
interest. In the medical service of the R.A.F., Canada, the value
of these tests in their standardized form was first proved by their
application to men who were actually unfit to fly, and the case
sheets of many such are on file in that department.

Their adoption only followed after the analysis and continual
checking of results obtained by tests not only upon those who desired
to take to the air, but also those who, having flown, were reported
by their instructors to be unfit to continue, and which showed that
they were demonstrably correct, and not merely deduced from _a
priori_ assumption.

[Illustration: REACTION AFTER TURNING TO THE LEFT.

REVOLVING CHAIR TESTS.]

[Illustration: REACTION AFTER TURNING.

REVOLVING CHAIR TESTS.]

Investigations into “oxygen want,” as evidenced by drowsiness,
shortness of breath, fainting, etc., at considerable altitudes,
have led the authorities to supply pilots with oxygen tanks for
use in high altitudes, since it is not the density of atmosphere
but the dearth of oxygen which causes these distressing symptoms.
An apparatus has recently been perfected by means of which, by
diluting the respired air with nitrogen, it is now possible to
determine accurately the altitude beyond which a pilot may fly in
safety, and so it is hoped to prevent many casualties, and assist
in the “classification” of airmen with reference to their flying
capabilities.

