Such in brief outline are some of the major investigations peculiar
to the duties of the medical staff of the brigade. To these are of
course added others better known, such as blood pressure, etc. Couple
them with psycho-mental problems, and they give some suggestion
of the history compiled for every would-be pilot and observer, an
intimate history unapproached in detail and interest by any other
tabulation of personal phenomena.

In conclusion, it is desired that special acknowledgment be made
of the exceptional service rendered by medical officers on the
aerodromes, and by the staff of medical orderlies distributed through
the brigade.

The hours of the former were long and arduous, the duties of the
latter, for which they were trained by the senior medical officer
and his staff, were manifold and pressing. That they were admirably
performed is of common knowledge, but that their swiftness in succour
and skill in first aid saved many a life, is known only to those who
have been privileged to see them at work.

[Illustration: AERIAL AMBULANCE.]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--MONTHLY STRENGTH IN CANADA AND PERCENTAGE
INCAPACITATED BY ILLNESS]




WINTER FLYING.


Prior to the operations of the Corps, it was generally assumed that
the obstacles to intensive training in a snow-covered country were
almost insuperable, but in the light of last winter’s experience
it is difficult to imagine the limit to which the aeroplane may
not safely be used in the latitudes of the far north. Its apparent
fragility, the exposure of the pilot, the fact that a large
percentage of accidents occurred in making landings, and the mental
picture of a machine floundering through snowdrifts in an attempt to
rise, all seemed to reduce the matter to an impossibility. To-day
it has been demonstrated by the work of the 44th Wing of this unit
that, with such provision as has already been proved suitable, the
aeroplane will rise from a snow surface more easily than from bare
ground at temperatures far below zero, land in spots inaccessible in
summer time, and that the pilot may be maintained in physical comfort
and security and practically immune to the weather.

