The process was one of return to aboriginal principles, in that
there was adopted a method used by the North American Indian, since
first he traversed the frozen waste. Experiments soon evidenced that
undercarriage wheels were out of the question in snow more than
six inches deep, and by the elimination of things that rotated and
the adoption of things that slid, the aeroplane fell, so to speak,
into line with the winter customs of the country. The progressive
experiments out of which were evolved the skids finally adopted,
called for the united suggestions of the unit, the Repair Park and
the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited, but passing over the investigations
into proper length, width, anchorage, bow curve, and kindred points,
the result was an effective and curiously attractive combination of
ancient and modern. As seen in the illustration on page 130, this
gives the machine a semi-naval appearance--prophetic perhaps of the
early union between the air forces of land and sea in the R.A.F.

Once in regular use, the efficiency of these shoes became very
noticeable. The slight bump observable in the best of landings
smoothed itself out into a gently cushioned settling in which the
actual first contact with the snow was imperceptible. Similarly,
in taking off, the sensation was as in a toboggan darting
without friction down a steep slope. Breakage in propellers and
undercarriages became reduced to a minimum, and frequent landings
soon ironed out the white expanse of the aerodrome to an unusually
good surface.

The protection of the pilot was of prime importance to continuous
training, and since flying was carried on at temperatures much below
zero, particular attention was given to guarding against frostbite.
Whale oil, vaseline, etc., smeared on the skin gave only partial
results, and it was not till long flying boots coming to the thigh
were provided, and chamois masks covering the face, with holes for
eyes and mouth were also issued, that comfort was finally attained.
Thus the pilot could remain in the air for a much longer period,
and perform instructional work with ease. The unit lacked the
electrically-heated clothing issued on the Western Front, but it did
not suffer in consequence. There were variations, of course, in the
powers of resistance to cold, it being found that some pilots could
endure low temperatures much better than others--and this called for
the particular attention of the medical officer on the aerodrome.

