[Illustration: LEASIDE IN WINTER.]

[Illustration: AERODROME, CAMP MOHAWK.]

[Illustration: A WINTER CRASH.]

[Illustration: FIG. 1 FIG. 2

EXPERIMENTAL ADOPTED

R.A.F. CAN.--WINTER FLYING SKIDS]

As to the engines themselves, but little trouble was experienced.
What did materialize was met by precautions somewhat similar to those
taken in motor car work under parallel conditions. All petrol, oil
and water were carefully drawn off every evening, the two latter
being heated when replaced. Radiators were three-quarter covered by
beaver board lined with felt, this plan working quite satisfactorily.
Inspection of rigging was particularly close, lest the extreme cold
should have set up undue stress in tension members, but the JN4
seemed born for the duty, and so far as records go, no accident took
place which is in any way attributable to mechanical failure brought
about by low temperature.

It was decided also to make certain slight changes in tail
construction should flying be carried on for another winter. This
consisted only of enclosing the tail skid in a flexible cover at the
point where it left the fuselage--to prevent snow from accumulating
inside the latter.

Further protective measures were very simple, such as wrapping water
connections with felt and fabric, and removing the oil gauge from
rear to front seat to shorten the piping, and leading it between the
cylinders to secure maximum warmth. For the rest, the hangars were
banked with earth some two feet high, and maintained at a temperature
not below fifteen degrees of frost.

That the programme was successful may be seen from the fact that
though the winter was of unusual severity, both as to cold and
snowfall, flying was carried out for twenty-six days in January,
twenty-one in February, and twenty-five in March. For these months,
the records give an average day temperature of twenty-six degrees,
twenty-two degrees, and seventeen degrees above zero, respectively,
with a minimum of thirty-five degrees below. During this period, some
instructors kept up an average flying time per day of two hours and
twenty-five minutes for the whole three months.

