On this record it was decided that the training of all squadrons
should be carried out in Canada for the following winter. This has
proved unnecessary. The campaign is over. But who will now scout the
prediction that the far North has no barriers which the explorer may
not surmount with ease and swiftness, and no secrets which shall not
soon be revealed to his enfranchized gaze.

[Illustration: RECORDS AND RECRUITING OFFICERS AND STAFF.]

[Illustration: RECRUITS’ DEPOT--JESSE KETCHUM BARRACKS, TORONTO.]




RECRUITS’ DEPOT.


This unit, formed on February 5th, 1917, was first stationed in
the Givens Street School, Toronto, which building was also partly
occupied by the 228th Canadian Regiment. Recruiting, however, was
active, and the R.F.C. began to show such strong signs of the marked
popularity it was to attain later, that extra accommodation was soon
required, and Crawford Street School taken over.

During the summer, it was seen that even this accommodation was
insufficient. The Depot, therefore, moved out to Leaside, and under
canvas.

The strength, at this time about 400, was largely increased by the
arrival of four American squadrons to be trained by the R.F.C. These
were attached to Recruits’ Depot for rations and accommodation. It
is satisfactory to remember that this first contact between the two
corps was productive of an admirable comradeship which has existed
ever since. It is noted also that canteen profits greatly increased,
and a large percentage of these was handed to each American squadron
on its departure.

The quartermaster’s branch of the Recruits’ Depot being still at
Givens Street, it was realized that much extra clerical and other
work would be saved could the whole depot be centralized. Steps were
therefore taken by headquarters to acquire convenient barracks in
town.

Early in September, the Recruits’ Depot band was formed--largely
helped by surplus canteen funds. It has been a source of much pride
and also of a certain amount of amusement to the men of the depot.
All parties for Texas or the United States were “played” down to the
railway station, and the band and “Bruno” (the camp dog--a handsome
St. Bernard) invariably accompanied the bi-weekly route marches.

