In October the need of permanent accommodation in town became urgent.
It was eventually found (owing to the great generosity of the Board
of Education, Toronto), at the Jesse Ketchum School--a large and
commodious building, which was completed as fast as possible, and
loaned absolutely free of cost, including the larger part of the park
attached to the building, which it was permitted to use as a parade
and sports’ ground. This consideration was only typical of the way in
which Toronto public authorities have invariably dealt with the Royal
Flying Corps.

The Depot moved into town on the 17th November, 1917, and was in good
workable shape by the middle of December.

To these barracks, cadets, for the first time, were sent for
preliminary training, and three or four hundred were thus added to
normal strength, which stood at about 700. The ordinary accommodation
proving insufficient for this number, double bunks were placed in all
the sleeping rooms, where high ceilings and good lighting made the
provision entirely feasible.

The band at this time was a first class organization, and in great
demand for dances and hockey matches--half the profits made being
allotted to the Longwood Convalescent Home. Concerts were held in the
canteen three times a week. As to exercise, an ice hockey rink was
made, a football ground rolled out, and three billiard tables put in
the canteen, the electric lighting of the rink being given free of
cost by the City Parks Commissioner. There was, therefore, no lack of
amusement or exercise throughout an unusually severe winter.

The routine of procedure has been briefly as follows: Upon arrival
at the Depot, all recruits reported to the non-commissioned officer
in charge of the receiving room, and were allotted sleeping
accommodation. Medical parade for final approval was held each
morning at nine o’clock, and an hour later recruits received
their regimental numbers as “finally approved.” Came a parade at
quartermaster stores for issue of kit. Transfer clothing statements
and clothing ledger being signed, all reported back immediately to
the receiving room for the numbering of all articles of kit now
in their possession. Civilian clothes were packed and sent to any
address the owner might wish, and recruits were turned over to the
barrack orderly sergeant who “carried on.”

