On discharge, the procedure is practically reversed, and all men
report to the postings department, for the checking of documents.
These being correct, sleeping quarters are allotted in space
set aside for this purpose. The same day, kits are laid out for
inspection, and inventories taken under the supervision of an
officer. These, being signed also by each man concerned, are sent
to the Quartermaster’s office, and checked against the original
clothing statements. Deficiency slips--should such result--(showing
articles deficient, if any, and their value) go then to the postings
department, to be checked against pay and mess book. This information
is sent to the officer in charge Records, on receipt of whose signal
that discharge may be proceeded with, an order is issued to the
contractor for civilian clothing to provide authorized civilian
outfit. The man’s kit is turned into the Quartermaster’s store No.
4, where another inventory of articles is made and forwarded to the
Quartermaster’s office, to be again checked against the original
clothing statement. Forms showing actual shortages of kit are
submitted to the Paymaster and a copy of Can. 638 (Particulars on
Discharge) to the Pay Department.

Since the inception of the brigade approximately 16,000 men have
passed through this unit. The process of demobilization will require
the above procedure of discharge to be applied to a strength of not
less than 12,000.

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--PAY ALLOWANCE AND CADET SUSTENANCE

TOTAL FEB. 1917 TO OCT. 1918--$10,666,196.00]




RECORDS AND RECRUITING.

MECHANICS


The first duty of the R.F.C. comprised the securing of a continuous
inflow of recruits, both mechanics and cadets, and while it was
anticipated that difficulties would be encountered, local conditions
as set forth below were such as to make the task unexpectedly
arduous. The state of affairs in Canada, so far as concerns
mechanics, was briefly as follows:--

(1) Recruiting for the C.E.F. was practically at a standstill.
The country had been “worked out.”

