(2) The R.F.C. was practically unknown in Canada.

(3) High wages were being paid to skilled workers.

(4) There was no organized recruiting system in use, each
Canadian unit doing its own.

(5) A very large percentage of skilled mechanics were essential
for the maintenance of aeroplanes and engines, and these were in
great demand at very high wages on munitions.

(6) The fact that, in a large number of cases, men had to be
transported for over 1,000 miles in order to be even interviewed,
or medically examined, made recruiting both expensive and
difficult.

The brightest point was the lively interest and very hearty
coöperation of every officer of the Department of Militia and
Defence, and of every officer of the Canadian Forces throughout
the Dominion. This coöperation has been maintained throughout our
work. Without it no success could have been attained. The spirit of
good fellowship and help has been of inestimable value to all our
recruiting officers, and later the same spirit, was encountered among
the officials administering the Military Service Act, to whose work
the operations of another force--engaged in recruiting men otherwise
than through the Military Service Act organization, must have been
a considerable trial. Instead of objections, the Corps encountered
nothing but assistance.

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--ESTIMATED VALUE OF RATIONS DRAWN FROM
C.A.S.C.

GRAND TOTAL $1,406,809.00]

At the end of January, 1917, recruiting offices were opened in
Toronto and Hamilton, with a trade test party in each place. The
latter was shortly withdrawn as being unproductive, and merged into
a central test station at Toronto. Simultaneously, and owing to
great distances to be travelled and to difficulties encountered in
obtaining suitable accommodation and facilities for trade testing at
other centres, it was decided to establish merely recruiting offices
at outside stations; and offices were opened at Montreal, Winnipeg
and Vancouver, each in charge of an experienced officer trained by
ourselves, assisted by a staff of non-commissioned officers and
men from England. Oral tests were conducted here, the practical
examination being given after arrival in Toronto.

