Owing to the distances between centres and the scattered population,
practically all applications for enlistment were dealt with
by correspondence, whether from headquarters or out-stations.
Transportation had then to be given to bring the applicant probably
at least 300 miles for a Medical Board, after which, if successful
in passing the oral tests, etc., he was transported to Toronto. This
journey, in the case of a man enlisting in Vancouver, occupied four
days and covered 2,500 miles. Sleeping accommodation was provided,
also meals en route. None of these difficulties were encountered in
England.

The Medical Boards placed at our disposal by the Department of
Militia and Defence were accustomed to pass for military service,
that is category “A.” For the purposes of the R.F.C., as it then was,
men of lower category than “A” were quite suitable, as no pack had to
be carried and there was little or no route marching. The composition
of the brigade is, therefore, very largely of men not fit for active
service, and who have been rejected time and time again by the C.E.F.
At the outset, Boards absolutely refused to pass for us applicants
of a lower medical category than “A,” this because the Board was
held responsible for any man returned as unfit on arrival in England
and _charged_ with the cost of his transportation, etc. Further, the
British practice of classifying men into “A,” “B,” “C,” “D,” and “E”
categories was not known. Each assistant director of medical service
required to be acquainted with our methods and standards, causing, in
consequence, considerable delay.

A further problem was that of pay. Whilst the Corps rate was 15c.
higher for skilled labour than the Canadian forces for unskilled,
a very high standard could not be set for trade test. The first
question of each recruit was: “What is the pay?” “How much will my
wife get?” and such answers as the recruiting officer could give were
not very reassuring. In contrast with the Canadian overseas man, the
prospect was, in truth, hardly attractive. The wife of the latter,
owing to the benefactions of the Canadian Patriotic Fund (subscribed
unofficially by Canadians) received $20.00 per month and $5.00 for
each child, in addition to a percentage of her husband’s pay. As
against this the brigade allowance looked meagre. The relief can be
realized, therefore, when, a little later, the authorities of the
Patriotic Fund, cognizant of the importance of R.F.C. work, and
that R.F.C. recruits were principally married men, extended their
generosity to the brigade as regarding men of category “A,” who were
eligible for overseas service. Here, too, a tribute must be paid to
R.F.C. men outside this category and unable to enjoy this special
benefit. It speaks highly for the patriotism of Canadians that these
mechanics carried cheerfully on, though under great personal and
financial disadvantages.

