In the early part of 1918, a number of category “A” men were
liberated for the purpose of joining the C.E.F. and proceeded
overseas, thus causing considerable shortage of labour in the Corps.
Further recruiting appearing impossible, female labour was employed
in the capacity of civilian subordinates. It was at first thought
that these subordinates would be used only in unskilled trades and
office routine, but it was soon evident that they could be trained
for simpler and lighter mechanical work. A separate section being
formed to handle recruiting and administration, a large number of
patriotic women volunteered for duty with the Air Force, of whom
1,200 were selected. Through their work the brigade was tided over
a serious shortage of labour. Unaccustomed to aeroplane work, and
unacquainted with military routine, they have universally performed
sterling service.

From the very first, civilian female subordinates were employed at
headquarters and other units in a clerical capacity. In the autumn of
1918 they might have been seen in any of the shops or camps, dressed
in dusters, caps and overalls, taking down engines, grinding valves,
stripping aeroplanes and doing all forms of manual labour heretofore
always performed by men. At the Repair Parks alone, 135 women were
employed at technical trades, while at the various camps nearly 600
were carrying on as mechanics. In the capacity of motor drivers they
rendered excellent service. A large proportion of the cars throughout
the brigade at the present time are driven by them.

Too much praise cannot be given to the women who have been employed
in many varying capacities by the R.A.F. throughout Canada. They
have given the greatest satisfaction, and done their work in the
most conscientious manner possible. Furthermore, in spite of many
predictions, they have caused no trouble whatsoever, and submitted
themselves apparently without effort to the necessary discipline of
the Force.

The following notes, re female subordinates, may be of interest,
showing their distribution:--

