These committees, being furnished with our medical standards, were
empowered to interview applicants, have them examined by the local
Medical Board and apply for transportation to Toronto for final
test and approval. It will be understood that the committees were
not active recruiting agents. They simply passed opinion on the
men sent to them by the wing, all applications being made through
headquarters. The Royal Flying Corps was by this time becoming known
and talked about throughout Canada. Publicity was better managed, and
there were received on an average twenty applications per day from
the whole of Canada. Uneasiness was felt about this time as to an
adequate supply of cadets being available. The demand was continually
increasing. Towards the summer of 1917 it reached 300 per month. A
little later in the fall it rose to 400 and 500 a month, requiring in
two months what in April, 1917, had been estimated as the need for
two-thirds of the whole year.

A new plan was therefore necessary. Statistical research indicated
that past efforts had not reached the public except in large centres.
It was, in consequence, determined to enlarge the civilian committee
plan, and establish committees in every town of 10,000 inhabitants
and over, throughout the whole of Canada. In places of less than
10,000, the assistance of at least one important man was sought
to accomplish this, and the Dominion was completely divided into
five recruiting districts with headquarters offices at Vancouver,
Winnipeg, Toronto, Montreal and Halifax. Each district was supplied
with an officer in charge, and a second officer, whose duty it was
to travel continually from place to place establishing committees
and advise and assist those committees already established. The
scheme proved very successful. About 350 civilian committees, with a
total of over 1,000 members, were established throughout Canada, and
the travelling officers, by the mere fact of their presence in the
different towns, stimulated interest, and through interviews with
local papers obtained publicity. Coincident with this, the matter of
publicity was tackled in a serious way by a campaign whereby it was
hoped to bring to the notice of every man in Canada the work being
done by, or at least the name of, the Royal Air Force.

