(5) It should not be forgotten that in this, as well as in the
campaign for recruits, the same staff was employed.

The brigade was handicapped from the commencement by the absolutely
inadequate staff provided. It has only been by most strenuous efforts
in training officers and men in the work that it was carried on at
all.

At the time of the signing of the armistice, 9,200 cadets had been
enlisted for service, while 35,000 applications had been handled by
headquarters and the various outstations.


RECORDS AND PERSONNEL SUPPLY

Unusually complete records of cadets and airmen enlisted were kept
from the very commencement of work in Canada. Where documents were
sent to officer in charge Records and the War Office, duplicates
were always kept. For this reason no change in organization or
administration was necessary when in September, 1917, the General
Officer Commanding was appointed officer in charge Records for Canada.

The continuous growth of the Air Force in Canada has meant a
corresponding growth in records. From time to time demands outgrew
systems, and it became necessary to remodel, so as to conform to
Imperial administration and yet dovetail with existing regulations
and conditions in Canada.

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--MONTHLY STRENGTH OF OFFICERS, W.O.^{’S}
N.C.O.^{’S} & MEN, CADET PILOTS, CADET OBSERVERS]

All posting of mechanics and of cadets throughout their training
has been carried out by this unit. The records of the training of
mechanics, and their progressive history from station to station,
have been maintained by the individual card system. A complete
history of each cadet from the time he first made application until
the time he proceeded overseas, through every stage of training and
every movement, has been kept in minute detail.

New departments required organization to deal with pensions and
other subjects on which there was very little information available;
while the work of handling other sections, such as, discharges, was
continually on the increase.

