In many cases the forms called for by K. R. were not available, new
forms being printed locally, also those used by the Medical Services,
which, although provided by the Canadian Militia, were often not
applicable to Imperial requirements.

It is found, however, on demobilization, that the records are in
excellent shape, and that the information at the disposal of this
office is complete.

Space does not permit of the printing of the hundreds of individual
names making up the personnel of those committees in various towns
to which the Corps is so greatly indebted, but to each and all, the
General Officer Commanding tenders in the name of the Royal Air
Force, his most sincere and hearty thanks for work, without which
such progress as may be credited to the brigade could not have been
achieved.

[Illustration: 89TH SQUADRON--CAMP MOHAWK.]

[Illustration: RIGHTING A MACHINE.]




THE CADET WING.


The Cadet Wing, like its younger and larger brother the School of
Aeronautics, found shelter at its birth in buildings most kindly
loaned by the University of Toronto. This was at the beginning of
March, 1917.

Prior to this, all R.F.C. cadets recruited had been equipped,
accommodated and generally looked after at Victoria College by the
Canadian Officers Training Corps, of the University of Toronto. This
unit, together with the School of Infantry of the District, continued
for some weeks to ration the cadets, but during hours of parade they
came under the Cadet Wing for instruction.

Already there were in existence the Recruits Depot, Stores Depot and
“X” Squadron at Long Branch. Up to now there had been no tuition
prior to flying, except such as could be given by the much overworked
but extremely efficient 2nd Lt. in command at Long Branch.

The strength of the Cadet Wing was, to commence with, some 50 cadets,
taken care of in ground instruction by 2 officers, 3 non-commissioned
officer instructors and some two or three clerks. Lectures covered
artillery observation, organization of troops, military law and such
technicalities as rigging, engines, etc. It will, therefore, be seen
that the two officers in charge were required to call upon the sum
total of their knowledge and experience to discharge their official
duties. The wing was fed direct by the recruiting office, since
cadets did not at first pass through Recruits Depot.

