Gunnery instruction was added shortly, though the wing was woefully
deficient in suitable material. Simultaneously courses were
organized, and a regular programme set on foot. Through the courtesy
of the O.C. School of Musketry Military District No. 2, arrangements
were made by which all cadets took a course in machine gunnery at
Hart House, including range practice. A Curtiss machine was secured
(a peculiarly massive aeroplane, discarded as impractical by the
Curtiss Company), and though no mechanical power would have lifted
it into the air, its bones served to illustrate the anatomy of the
structure of which it was a prototype. There was also one Curtiss
and one motor car engine. It will be noted that by now the wing had
assumed the threefold function of a Cadet Wing proper, a School of
Aeronautics and an Armament School.

As can be understood, the course was not of any set length. The
passage of a cadet through the organization depended upon his
capacity to learn, and the requirements of the flying units. The
first graduates proceeded to Long Branch where, equipped with such
tuition as time had afforded, they began flying at once. By the
end of April, drafts were sent to Borden, where further ground
instruction was now being given.

Further expansion came in May, and with it additional help from the
University authorities. The splendid buildings of Burwash Hall were
secured from Victoria College, and the commodious East Residence
rented from the University of Toronto. It is difficult to say what
would have been the progress of this work of the Corps, were it not
for the constant consideration received from the President, Governors
and Superintendent of the University.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STRENGTH, 43RD WING, LEASIDE.]

[Illustration: RECEIVING WIRELESS.

ARTILLERY OBSERVATION.]

With expansion, arrived also the need for some subdivision of duties.
The Cadet Wing was too polyglot. It provided as much as humanly
possible of everything, but not enough of anything. Came therefore
the first demarcation between the Cadet Wing and the School of
Military Aeronautics,--i.e. the junior and senior sections, though
for official purposes of administration they were still unified.
New instructional equipment arrived, and during May the strength of
cadets rose to nearly 150.

