Before passing on to later history, it is desired to give sincere
and official recognition to the splendid work done at this early
stage in spite of meagre facilities and an absurdly small staff. The
difficulties encountered were many and serious. The wing was still in
the throes of active service organization, but all eyes were turned
to the output of cadets as the crux of the situation, and the means
by which officers and men alike were to justify the programme then
being worked out. The output has never failed, but at no period did
it involve greater personal strain and effort than in these first two
or three months of this unit’s existence.

On June the 11th, a staff of nine officers and thirty-eight men
arrived from England to form officially the School of Aeronautics,
and took over general instruction at the Cadet Wing prior to the
final subdivision of the latter. This occurred on July 14th when the
wing moved out to summer quarters at Long Branch which was then given
up by “Y” Squadron as an aerodrome. Work continued with constantly
increasing numbers, till the winter of 1917, when, on the departure
of the 42nd and 43rd Wings for Texas, the unit divided itself between
Borden and Mohawk for some six months. Here instruction continued
without interruption till April 4th, 1918, on which date the two
sections re-amalgamated at Long Branch, with a strength that now
reached a staff of 200 officers and men and 900 cadets.

The formation of the Armament School in the early summer permitted
the wing to cease elementary gunnery instruction and devote more time
to drill, discipline and wireless, but it should be remembered that
the Armament School was the logical expansion of work previously
carried out at the Cadet Wing and School of Aeronautics.

In the summer of 1918, the wing was on the lines of an infantry
battalion, with four squadrons and a headquarters company. Drill,
physical training, wireless, topography and air force law were in the
curriculum, but the essential and psychological duty of this unit was
to impress on the new recruit those fundamental precepts of military
discipline, honour and self respect on which his future career alone
could be successfully based.

