As to relaxation there was begun on July 18th an excellent monthly
magazine, “The Cadet Wing Review,” which is second to none of similar
publications. Local talent also conducted a theatre which was a
veritable centre of attraction.

Through this summer, the average strength was 200 staff, and 1,100
cadets. To house them for the winter, large barracks had just been
completed at the close of hostilities. The output of cadets of the
unit will be noted by the graph on page 161.

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--OUTPUT OF CADET WING AND ARMAMENT SCHOOL

GRAND TOTALS. CADET WING 6695

ARMAMENT SCHOOL 1225]




SCHOOL OF AERONAUTICS.


By May 1917, it had become quite apparent that ground training of
cadets demanded an expansion of treatment which could not be afforded
by the then existing Cadet Wing, however, valiantly the latter unit
might strive, and on the 15th a chief instructor, for the purpose of
starting a School of Military Aeronautics, was ordered to proceed to
Canada, taking with him eight other officers and thirty-eight men of
various ranks as a nucleus of an instructional staff.

This advance party worked in conjunction with the Cadet Wing until
July 1st, on which date No. 4 School of Military Aeronautics was
recorded as a separate and official organization.

The anticipated expansion immediately took place, aided very greatly
by the assistance, not only of the President of the University of
Toronto, but also of the professors of that institution who gave
up room after room, often at great inconvenience to themselves.
About this time, also, a large shipment of aeroplanes and engines
for instructional purposes was forwarded from England. It was
unfortunately lost on the way out, the immediate effect being that
for the first few months all practical instruction was confined to
the Curtiss engine and JN4 aeroplane.

The length of the course given during this period was three weeks,
but at the end of the month it was increased to four, and comprised
six flights, covering engines, rigging, wireless, artillery
observation, machine guns, and instruments and bombs.

