[Illustration: STAFF OF SCHOOL OF AERONAUTICS.]

[Illustration: “AERIAL” OF VICINITY OF UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO.

(Note the Cadet Camp lying north of main University Building.)]

The importance of the work done at this unit was now most firmly
established. The length of the course was increased in September
to six weeks, and it was arranged that three courses went through
the school at a time, each composed of 150 cadets with two weeks
intervening. By now the strength of the unit had increased to 19
officers, 119 non-commissioned officers and men, 149 United States
army and naval cadets and 261 Imperial cadets. Occupation of the
buildings so kindly furnished by the University authorities covered
Burwash Hall, East and South residences, School of Practical Science,
Medical Building, portion of Convocation Hall, Thermodynamics
Building and dining halls in University and Victoria College.

In September, instruction was further expanded by the formation of
a school at the factory of the Canadian Aeroplanes Limited, where
members of flying units received introduction to the theory and
principle of aeroplane construction. There were three courses, each
lasting eighteen days, and each being divided into ten squads,
members of which remained together throughout their entire period
of instruction. Examinations were set and corrected by an examining
party at the School under direct supervision of the Commandant, when
sixty-five per cent. of marks was necessary before a cadet passed
through and was posted to a flying unit.

In the month of December, 1917, the strength of cadets greatly
increased and it became necessary to draw again on the goodwill
of the University authorities and occupy Wycliffe College.
Simultaneously a pool was formed in a remodeled hotel, Haydon House,
some four miles from the School, where were housed such cadets as
the flying units were unable to take owing to the reduced amount of
flying during the winter months. By the end of the year cadets on the
strength amounted to 721.

