Training material now began to arrive more regularly from England,
and, as a result, the instruction given was considerably diversified.

In March, 1918, a seventh flight was formed for the study of aerial
navigation, in which much more complete instruction was given in map
reading and course plotting. Machine gun instruction was transferred
to the Armament School at Hamilton, and the time thus secured given
to further study of aerial navigation.

The practical education of the mechanics taught at the School was
ensured by the construction at Leaside of engine running sheds, in
which engines of various types were set up and their operations
drilled into all pupils under conditions which simulated those on
active service as nearly as possible. Considerable improvement in the
engine knowledge of cadets was immediately noticeable.

On April 1st, cadets in training at the School, now called No.
4 School of Aeronautics, had reached 1,277, while the staff was
composed of 26 officers and 230 non-commissioned officers and men,
with the inevitable result that another residence was taken over from
the University, with housing capacity for 185.

Again a flight was added to the course, this time for observers, and
by July all cadets thus passing through the unit received instruction
in aerial navigation, instruments, reconnaissance, organization of
the Army and R.A.F., and general military knowledge, photography,
engines, rigging and wireless.

In September, the process of engine instruction was still further
advanced by discarding the fixed stands to which Curtiss engines
had been rigidly attached, and substituting in their stead sections
of aeroplane fuselages so balanced as to be capable of vertical
adjustment, thus simulating the action of machines when in the air.
To these were attached Clerget engines, which it was now proposed to
use in conjunction with the Avro machines contemplated for flying
instruction. This departure from the reciprocating to the rotary
type made it necessary to organize special classes of tuition for
non-commissioned officers and men from various flying units. In this
course, the assistance given by the School Board of Toronto by the
use of a portion of the Lippincott Technical School proved greatly to
the advantage of the brigade.

