[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--SCHOOL OF AERONAUTICS OUTPUT OF PUPILS

GRAND TOTAL 6171]

[Illustration: PARADE ON UNIVERSITY CAMPUS.

CADET CAMP, UNIVERSITY LAWN.

(Note “Aerial” of this Camp on page 164.)]

The only further change made in the system of instruction at the
School of Aeronautics, was the introduction of the block system in
October, 1918, under which forty hours were allotted to engines,
twenty-seven to aerial navigation, twenty to wireless, twenty-six to
rigging and thirty to artillery observation. The observers’ flight
was carried on independently of the above, and the ninety hours’
instruction given to the latter on technical subjects covered all
requirements.

In concluding this very brief sketch of an extremely important
section of the brigade, it is desired to specially acknowledge
the services of not only the instructing officers but also of the
non-commissioned officers and men on the staff. It fell to the duty
of many sergeants and corporals to demonstrate the principles and
theories of highly technical appliances, and to demonstrate them
moreover in many cases to men who were much their seniors and who
had had the advantage of a modern and expensive education. It was,
however, uniformly observed that the non-commissioned officers who
occupied this highly responsible and difficult position, discharged
their duty not only with a dignity beyond all praise, but also with
an exemplary clearness based on an intimate knowledge of the subject.
They were confronted very often with questions which would have
confused many who laid definite claim to higher attainments, but it
has not yet been found that any one of them was lacking either in
the technical qualification or the power of self expression which
was necessary for the satisfactory discharge of their duties. The
marked improvement in the all-round ability of cadets arriving at the
various flying wings after the School of Aeronautics had had time to
finally find itself, is due to the excellent work done by officers
and non-commissioned officers alike at this unit.

