


ARMAMENT SCHOOL.


It is a far cry from the one-time pilot who, between the vagaries
of his machine, took pot shots at his opponent with a revolver or
sporting rifle, to his successor of to-day armed with a machine gun
that discharges bullets at the rate of 600 per minute through a
four-bladed propeller revolving at the rate of 1,200 times a minute.
It was, therefore, the object of instruction at the Armament School
to so train the would-be pilot that he might have a thoroughly
grounded knowledge of the weapons he was destined to use. The need of
special tuition there given was further accentuated by the increasing
pressure on the instructors at the School of Aeronautics.

In March, 1918, the O.C. proposed to the War Office that this
School be set on foot immediately, and matters had been so far
advanced by May that necessary construction was well under way. Here
again the R.A.F., Canada, was fortunate in being the recipient of
much consideration from Canadian organizations. On learning that
accommodation was required for the purposes of the School, the
Canadian Westinghouse Company Limited, one of the most important
industrial concerns in Canada, most generously offered the use of
a large factory in Hamilton free of charge, together with adjacent
grounds, and shortly afterwards the brigade was further helped by
permission to use the area of a 9-hole golf course immediately
adjoining. This very considerate proposal was made by the Hamilton
Golf Club, and was gratefully accepted.

These preliminaries successfully arranged, the matter began to move
rapidly.

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF, ARMAMENT SCHOOL, HAMILTON.]

[Illustration: RIGGING FLIGHT, SCHOOL OF AERONAUTICS.

AEROPLANE DESIGN, SCHOOL OF AERONAUTICS.]

In May three officers and two non-commissioned officers left England
to form the nucleus of the instructional staff, bringing with them
such material as could be provided at the moment. The Aviation
Department of the Imperial Munitions Board assumed responsibility for
the physical portion of the work in hand, under the supervision of
the Royal Engineers section of the brigade. This provision included
ranges, armouries, workshops, instructional and lecture buildings, a
hospital, and the general adaptation of the interior of the factory
buildings to the purposes required.

