All this advanced so swiftly that by June 19th, the factory building
was equipped, and the Armament School, which up to this time had
formed a portion of the Cadet Wing at Long Branch, moved to its new
quarters on June 20th.

The course of instruction called for a much further excursion into
applied mechanics than any portion of the tuition formerly given.
As it progressed, it soon became evident that the embryonic pilot
was keen for intimate knowledge of the guns on the efficiency of
which his future victories depended, and his general course was so
modulated as to give him the opportunity to master the last detail.
The question of a method of sighting which would allow a deflected
aim to be laid on a moving machine received mathematical attention,
as was also the synchronizing of a gun with the revolving blades of
the propeller. On this and other points, information was continually
being received and communicated through the School to other units of
the brigade.

Drafts of cadets, arriving on Wednesday afternoons, were immediately
handed over to the quartermaster’s department, where arrangements
for their domestic comfort were made for the four or five weeks they
were to remain. The following morning instruction began, first with
one gun, its description, action, care and possible troubles in the
air, accompanied by range work and constant handling. The question of
aiming was gradually introduced and ran progressively throughout the
course, until the pupil felt that he could, without effort, fire the
gun in the air, making allowances for his own speed and direction,
his enemy’s speed, direction and range, and instantaneously adapt his
fire to meet the ever-varying and never-ending manoeuvres of his own
and his enemy’s machine.

Both guns and sights having been mastered, the cadet was introduced
to the subject of gearing his gun to fire through his propeller
at varying rates of revolutions. The principle upon which this
gearing depended, though one of great difficulty in instruction, was
nevertheless the subject which, of all others, provoked the greatest
interest amongst the pupils.

