Arrangements were completed to enable the pilot actually to carry out
the process of synchronizing his gears and propeller under conditions
which perfectly simulated his position in a machine. He was thus
enabled to watch the principle at work.

Instruction being completed in two guns, ammunition, aerial bomb
sights and synchronizing gears, another section of the School
undertook the pupils’ training in bombs, bomb dropping and bomb
sights.

The increasing importance of this subject was appropriately balanced
by the very wide range of sights and bomb-dropping apparatus
demonstrated by specially experienced instructors, whereby the
pupil was made cognizant of all the operations of loading bombs on
machines, fusing them, attaching the necessary releasing gear, and
so loading his machine that he could at will drop any type of bomb
suited to any target which might suddenly present itself, from a
group of infantry which needed scattering, to the ammunition dump to
be exploded.

[Illustration: LIBRARY, ARMAMENT SCHOOL, HAMILTON.

CADET BARRACKS, ARMAMENT SCHOOL, HAMILTON.]

[Illustration: ENGINE FLIGHT.

CLERGET ENGINE ON ROCKING NACELLE.]

[Illustration: TILTING.

CADET SPORTS.]

[Illustration: ENGINE TEST, CAMP BORDEN.

ENGINE REPAIR, CAMP BORDEN.]

The peculiar path taken by a bomb in falling from a machine with a
forward momentum imparted by the speed of the machine, needed very
special mathematical calculation to enable the pilot to release it at
a considerable distance from his objective, and to this end a variety
of bomb sights were explained and practised with from dummy machines
with unfused bombs over mechanically moving scenery.

The flying camps, to which cadets were posted on the completion of
their course in elementary gunnery, carried on further practices in
coöperation with this school, and instructors were sent to these
wings from time to time to coöperate, and to insure that no gaps or
overlaps occurred in the cadet’s training. By this means the pilot
who left this country for overseas was assured that he had covered
every section of the field of armament, and that no situation was
likely to occur during his flying career with which he could not deal.

