In addition to the training of embryo pilots, courses of instruction
were conducted for observers, during which, for a period of three
weeks, they were made competent to handle the gun which they would be
required to use overseas. By the use of guns with camera attachment,
recording a photograph on a graduated screen instead of firing a
shot, the resultant photograph revealed to the observer the effect of
his shoot, and his graduation was not considered complete until he
was able to produce a collection of photographs which evidenced an
automatic and deadly aim.

During the period in which this School operated, an average of more
than 400 cadets per month was instructed, and the record which each
carried overseas showed a complete and thorough course of ground
training performed entirely under Canadian tuition.




AERIAL GUNNERY.


For the first few months, the Corps had an all sufficiency of work in
organizing depots, selecting aerodromes, arranging for recruiting,
and numberless other activities on all of which largely depended
whatever future success might be achieved. There was no aerial
gunnery for the reason that there were no instructors. What had been
done on the ground was elementary, and reasonably so, due to the lack
of material. Matters moved forward when the first instructors arrived
in Canada on April 25th, 1917, and, having formed a class of picked
mechanics (the instructors of the future), enabled the School of
Aerial Gunnery to be organized at Camp Borden on May 1st.

The School had just two guns and 18 pupils--the historic “eighteen”
who formed the first shipment of real pilots. The latter had no
aerial work--the overseas call was too imperative--but each fired 40
rounds at a ground target.

Meantime the School of Aeronautics was busy, and the effect became
noticeable. Camp Borden, relieved of much elementary training, did
higher and aerial work, and got for itself ranges, fixed targets and
silhouettes. The course lengthened to three weeks with 100 rounds
fired in the air from a Lewis gun--no aerial Vickers being available.
In July came more guns and equipment from England, the second course
began with 62 cadets and the state of affairs definitely improved.
Camera guns turned up, and became instantly popular. Work commenced
on fitting a timing gear so that the gun might shoot through the
propeller. The chief disadvantage was the shortage of serviceable
machines available.

