VARIOUS GUN MOUNTINGS.

GROUND PRACTICE.]

In May, also, the Armament School opened at Hamilton, and relieved
the School of Aerial Gunnery of giving elementary instruction after
pupils had already learned to fly.

During June a fourth squadron was added to train observers
exclusively, enabling the School to adopt the ideal principle of
giving all pilot cadets synchronized gear and camera gun training,
and all observer cadets instruction in Lewis and turret camera guns,
the sequence being as follows:--

1. 1 hour dual camera gun--12 pictures of silhouette taken by
diving on it from behind.

2. 1 hour dual, with pictures of a target machine in the air,
allowing for speed of 100 m.p.h. and necessary deflection.

3. Dual, on C.C. gear (instructor in back seat) diving at angle
of 60° to 45° at silhouettes in Lake Ontario, 200 rounds or one
hour.

4. Dual, 1 hour or at least 60 rounds with gun stoppages. This
determines the pupil’s proficiency in clearing jambs.

5. Dual, enfiling with C.C. gear, 200 rounds diving from 1,000 to
100 feet at dummy trench in Lake Ontario.

During all firing over the water, observations are taken from a watch
tower, and a complete report of all results is compiled.

There follows then another 4 hours’ dual, after which the pupil goes
solo and repeats all he has previously done under the watchful eye of
his instructor.

Arriving at the final instructional squadron, there ensues an
ultimate 4 hours’ dual work before the nearly graduated pilot is
asked to do one spiral, two vertical banks, three loops, four
Immelmann turns, five half-rolls and six complete rolls. During
all this time he is equipped with a camera gun, and expected to
manoeuvre into a position favorable for attacking another machine,
simultaneously avoiding being photographed himself by an opponent.

This brought about marked proficiency, and it was proved quite
clearly that pilots had been going overseas with too much straight
shooting and not enough practice during stunting. The new system,
however, brought tuition up to conditions actually existing at the
front at the time. Several experienced pilots became available, and
their lectures were most valuable. The output of cadets was (June)
182, but the average flying had gone up to 11 hours.

