In July the School became that of Aerial Fighting--a more descriptive
title, since tactics were so prominent in its course. The contrast
with June of 1917 was somewhat remarkable, there being now 92
officers and 700 other ranks. During this month rocking nacelles and
Scarff mountings were introduced for all ground work, and all pilot
instructors were arranged to be examined monthly. This led to the
discovery that refresher courses were necessary in cases, these being
forthwith commenced. The month’s output was 262, with flying time
with guns of 11 hours.

In August, the observers’ course was well under way, being a
modification of that arranged for pilots. There was naturally no C.C.
shooting, but instruction covered every practical method of firing
at possible targets from the observer’s seat. This month there were
graduated 246 pupils with a slightly reduced flying time of 9½
hours.

[Illustration: WING OFFICE, ETC.--BEAMSVILLE.

RANGES--BEAMSVILLE.]

[Illustration: CABLE WAY FOR GUNNERY PRACTICE, TEXAS.

(SINCE OUT OF DATE.)]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--OUTPUT OF PILOTS--SCHOOL OF AERIAL
GUNNERY]

By September pupils were passing all tests under the same instructor
in any one squadron. This, coupled with the use of speaking tubes,
was of considerable help. Further guns, gears and equipment had come
in from England, and the situation was now vastly different from
that which pertained to earlier months when the School was forced to
manufacture much of its own equipment. Instruction was going well,
and the output reached 270, with a flying time of more than 9 hours.

The officer personnel expanded in October to 110, this being of
great assistance. Pilots were limited to three hours per day in the
air, and, in consequence, machines had not been reaching a maximum
flying time. The effect of good instruction at the Armament School
was now most noticeable, as pupils were coming through with increased
technical knowledge of gunnery and guns. The first Canadian-built
Avro machine was flown during this month, with a most satisfactory
performance. The output touched 281 and flying time 10 hours.

