On taking to the air with the camera gun, the observer is piloted
by an instructor, and is initiated not only in the photographing of
other machines, but also in manoeuvres which have for their object
the avoidance of being photographed by the opposing camera gun.
Finally, the pupil engages in aerial combat with another machine
piloted by a “hostile” instructor, and each machine attempts to
“shoot down” the other. In this contest the pilot or observer who
obtains the most accurate pictures is counted the victor. Every
principle of aerial fighting as taught both in lectures and in the
air, is practised, and upon its completion the results, as inflexibly
registered by the camera gun, are subject to the keenest criticism.

[Illustration: CAMERA GUNNERY.]

[Illustration: 82ND SQUADRON.]




WIRELESS.


It was, of course, recognized from the very first that thorough
acquaintance not only with every means of communication from the air
to the ground, but also ability to read every signal necessarily
transmitted from the ground to the air, was one of the most important
requirements in the training of a pilot.

The ranging of guns (particularly heavies), the finding of targets
and their destruction have all been successfully accomplished
by coöperation between the pilot and the communicating battery.
Numberless devices have been experimentally tried such as coloured
lights, signalling by lamps, etc., etc.; but none proved a means of
communication which was not only reliable but which also afforded
no invitation to attack by the enemy. As the outcome, the wireless
system from the aeroplane to the ground, and ground strips, or
panneau, from the ground to the aeroplane were adopted and uniformly
used. As far as concerns the training work of the Canadian wing of
the Royal Flying Corps, the methods used were naturally those already
established in England.

On arrival at the Recruits’ Depot, the cadet received his first
initiation, together with a small amount of instruction in the
code used. Moving hence to the Cadet Wing at Long Branch, wireless
formed a definite part of the routine of the day’s work. The cadet
was required to successfully send and receive six words per minute,
and for purposes of instruction telephones were connected to the
buzzer circuits. In the tuition of sending, Morse recorders operated
by means of a silenced key were installed, and picture targets,
constructed with miniature lamps shining haphazardly through small
holes, were operated from a switchboard. These represented shell
bursts which the cadet was required instantly to locate and report.

