If it be asked why the pilot does not receive as well as send
wireless messages while in the air, it may be stated that up to the
present the difficulties of receiving on a trailing aerial have been
such that what might be termed a graphic ground method has proved
preferable. Large ground strips are, on active service, an invitation
for bombardment by the enemy and are being aided by the Popham
Panneau, a method of signalling consisting of the rapid forming up
of small, symmetrical, rectangular figures, by arrangements of white
bands capable of rapid variation. In general they are the combination
of the letter “T” with short, symmetrical additions.

The Aldis lamp, also used, is an improvement on the heliograph, and
reflects the rays of an electric globe instead of sunlight, but it
will be understood that recent advances in wireless telephoning have
revolutionized the above methods.

A word is in place with regard to the Artillery Coöperation School
at Leaside through which all pilots of necessity must pass. The
equipment is the result of very brilliant work by an R.A.F. officer.
The maps themselves represent two sections of the Western front, and
are reproduced with vivid accuracy from aerial photographs. Each is
40 feet × 20 feet, and contains some eighty targets so arranged as
to allow switching from one gun pit to another, thus following the
actual work of destruction by imaginary batteries. Zone calls are
arranged for all targets, these representing every possible point
for bombardment, such as hostile battery positions, trench points,
railroads, cross roads and fortified positions in enemy towns.
British and German trenches are shown on a scale of approximately
five inches to one hundred yards.

The total number of electric globes used to simulate bursts is 1,360,
and the two balconies where the observing pilots sit are so equipped
that every operation which must be carried out in doing wireless
tests must be completed before signals can be received by the
operator seated below at the imaginary battery. Space does not permit
of a detailed description of the intricate, electrical work required
to complete this admirable installation. It suffices to say that
those best qualified to judge deem it a very considerable achievement.

