Leaving the School, the cadet takes to the air to be tested by
photographing given points, his ground instruction still proceeding.
In the case of the observer, the course is the same, and all such
work forms part of a general mapping scheme which aimed at the
compiling of a complete reproduction of the areas around the several
aerodromes.

Bad weather, usually considered a bugbear, is not allowed to
interfere. By the use of a wide shutter slit and the very best
lenses, tests are made in all weathers, and active service conditions
thus paralleled. That photographic instruction has been faithfully
given and intelligently received, may be seen from the excellent
reproductions of aerial work presented in this volume.

From the foregoing it might be assumed that the art is simply
acquired, but such is not in any way the case. To use his lens with
complete facility, the pupil must correctly establish his height,
his relative position with the objects to be photographed, and,
generally speaking, be sufficiently at home in the air to do his
flying instinctively and devote his chief attention to the camera.

[Illustration: ATTACHING CAMERA TO FUSELAGE.

BUILDING UP A MOSAIC.]

[Illustration: RECEIVING.

ARTILLERY OBSERVATION HUT.]

[Illustration: PHOTOGRAPHY.

AERIAL NAVIGATION.]

[Illustration: AERIAL AMBULANCE.]




ARMOUR HEIGHTS SYSTEM.


Training development in England had now reached a point at which
elements already recognized but not hitherto fully appreciated
were proved to be invaluable. Their use was aimed primarily at the
attaining of instinctive flying by the pupil. The means by which
this was achieved, the consequent effect on the instructor, and the
reduced fatalities during instruction are sufficiently notable to
call for mention.

The product has been the active-service pilot as distinguished from
the peace pilot--two vastly different individuals.

The actions and reactions of this system are in general
psychological. They begin with the assumption that since fear is
almost invariably of the unknown, once the latter is eliminated
fear should be non-existent. The approach is, therefore, by way of
wiping out ignorance concerning the air and the machine in which the
pupil and instructor ascend, and illustrating, while in flight, the
simplicity of those laws which are fundamental to all good pilots and
machines.

