This, while seemingly simple enough, involves an ultimate strain
on the instructor. His pupils are, it is true, limited to six, but
into each of these he is expected to pour the sum of his knowledge
and skill. He is personally responsible for their crashes. At first
blush apparently unjust, this resolves itself into an absolutely
fair deduction from the principles of the system. A crash by a
pupil--engine failure and aeroplane failure being too infrequent
to alter the premise--is considered as due to an imperfection of
training. At some stage in the course some indispensable point must
have been slighted or overlooked. Hence the pupil’s inability to meet
the emergency.

Character--that subtle union of temperament and disposition, the
increasing air sense, the delicacy of control, the spontaneous
response, the nameless faculty by which the pupil becomes, as it
were, welded to the machine which in turn replies to the subconscious
movement of hand and foot--the study of all these are found in the
Armour Heights system, which itself is based on an admirable method
originated at Gosport, in England. The pupil is expected to do the
flying, and even in an emergency the instructor does not assume
control until it is demonstrated that the pupil is literally out of
his depth.

And always by telephone or tube sounds back from the front seat the
guiding voice, encouraging, reproving, suggesting and probing the
mental process of the pupil at the moment. Take, for instance, the
spin, that plunge easy to commence and equally easy to terminate.
The machine slows, stalls, dips and dives earthward. At the second
spin comes steadily in the word of experience--“stick a little
forward--not too much--right rudder--hold her there--that’s
right--easy isn’t it?--feel all right?--let’s do it again--put her
in yourself this time.” With such an “entente cordiale” as this, it
is clear why the words “danger” and “nerves” are barred from the
instructor’s vocabulary, and the terms “safe” and “dangerous” give
place to “right” and “wrong.” The pupil has obtained the sense of
relationship between himself and his machine.

