Demonstrate effect of the controls.
Flying straight, level and climbing.
Turns.
Misuse of controls in turns.
Difference in control with the engine off.
Glide.
Stalling.
Slow flying.
Gliding turns.
Taking-off into wind.
Landing into wind.
Approach.
Spinning, etc.

The pupil now goes solo.

Steeper turns, with and without engine.
Climbing turns.
Flatter glide.
Side-slipping.
Taking-off and landing across wind.
Landing on a mark.
Forced landings.
Higher manoeuvring.

From the moment of introduction of the Armour Heights system, a
modification of the training of instructors became necessary. The
psychological phase of the new method demanded recognition, and steps
were taken forthwith to analyze and increase the personnel of aerial
tuition at all units. The School of Special Flying resolved itself
into a station of five products, as indicated by the graph given
herewith. The value of each class to the Royal Air Force, Can., has
been inestimable.

The crashes resulting in fatalities showed, under the new Armour
Heights system, a notable decrease as evidenced by the chart on page
218. To realize the full significance of this chart, it is necessary
to remember that the pilot who is an “Armour Heights graduate” has
performed in the air every manoeuvre of which his machine is capable.
He has solved all aerial problems. Whatever protective agencies human
skill and experience could formulate were put into operation, and the
record in respect of fatalities is so low as to be a tribute to the
ceaseless care exercised.

[Illustration: “PEGASUS.”

ACROBATICS.]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--CRASH COMPARISON SHOWING EFFECT OF
INTRODUCTION OF THE ARMOUR HEIGHTS SYSTEM]

And if it should be asked why those phases of the system which may
be termed its humanities are of so recent development, the answer
lies in the fact that what is termed “air sense” called for an
investigation of personal phenomena in respect of which science had
not a single landmark. Men watched the bird curving its wings to
invisible gales, and hazarded numberless theories. Early machines
were tricky compared to their successors. They lacked present
efficiency, reliability and simplicity. The sum total of the powers
of the pilot were busy meeting mechanical difficulties, and there
was little opportunity for excursions into the psychology of the new
art. The honour of service is equal, but the pilots sent overseas by
the R.A.F., Can., in 1918, have in comparison with the pilots of 1914
a vastly superior technical and mental training. They have advanced
step by step with the world’s knowledge of the air.

