(9) Whether court of enquiry is being held.

The next procedure was to further analyze the accident by
establishing as quickly as possible all facts which might tend to
elucidate information. Under the nine succeeding headings come also
certain crashes from one or more contributory causes--the latter to
be further classified in relative proportion, whether primary or
secondary.

i. Aeroplane defect--
(a) Breakage.
(b) Engine failure.
(c) Faulty rigging.

ii. Error of judgment--
(a) Not due to poor instruction.
(b) Probably due to poor instruction.

iii. Loss of head.

iv. Brain fatigue.

v. Fear.

vi. Physical illness.

vii. Unavoidable.

viii. Disobeying--
(a) Rules of the air.
(b) Instructions for that flight.
(c) Standing orders.

ix. Weather (wing visibility, temperature effects).

As some accidents will have one or more contributory causes, they
will be shown under two headings:--

Primary cause.
Secondary or contributory cause.

It will be seen at a glance that the bringing forth of this
information involved reference to records already in existence, and
which had been maintained with particular care in order they might
be fully available when thus crucially needed. There was sent,
furthermore, specified information with regard to certain possible
contributory causes, such as “loss of head,” “brain fatigue” or
“fear.” Under “loss of head,” for instance, it is pointed out that
the pupil in his new occupation of flying, especially for the first
time, has every mental faculty on the alert at extremely high
tension, and that the sense of danger, although not asserting itself,
is also subconsciously present. It follows, therefore, that under the
strain of an emergency the power of synchronized decision and act may
lapse--this lapse resulting in what is known as “loss of head.” When
there is added to this the fact that in flying, not only seconds, but
parts of a second count enormously, it will be clear that after an
actual loss of head there is seldom time to correct an error.

