“Brain fatigue” and “fear” are allied to “loss of head;” when the
pupil reaches the stage in which he has neither the power to reason,
decide or act. Then supervenes a state of mental inertia due to the
swiftly repeated stream of impulses received in rapid succession by
his brain. He begins to feel alone, and unable to assume control.
Errors occur, and he becomes overwhelmed with the enormousness
of the whole thing. Follows a state of brain fatigue and stupor,
during which he awaits events and takes little part in the control
of his machine. After such an accident, the pupil has generally no
recollection of what has happened. His memory seems to be partially
stunned. Under these circumstances, it seldom occurs that he resumes
flying--his temperament as a general thing proving to be unsuitable.

[Illustration: TYPES OF CRASHES.]

[Illustration: A TEXAS CRASH.

AT DESERONTO.

AT DESERONTO.]

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--CRASHES ACCORDING TO CAUSES

TOTAL CRASHES 174]

It is important that “brain fatigue” should be sharply separated from
“fear.” The latter is rarely experienced in the air on the first few
solo flights, the pilot’s mind being far too much concerned with the
details of flying, watching the various instruments, and in checking
his position and direction in the air relative to the ground. Many
confess to a lurking sense of danger, but all say that it rarely if
ever asserts itself.

Turning again to the graph on page 218, and now keeping in mind the
classification of crashes, it is interesting to note that, owing to
the introduction of the Armour Heights system, crashes in which the
machine is totally wrecked were reduced from 53 in the month of June
to 21 in part of the month of November. “B” and “C” crashes in which
longerons are broken, were reduced from 43 in June to 12 in November.
“D” crashes, which are those affecting only the undercarriage or
planes, and are usually due to rough ground being insufficiently
allowed for, or too late a pull back on the control ere the machine
comes into contact with the earth, fell from 107 to 16. While
the general reduction is most gratifying, the improvement in the
acquirement of a delicate control necessary to make workmanlike
landings is remarkable.

