On September 24th, 1917, the advance party left for Texas, composed
of 4 U.S. officers and 50 men and 4 R.F.C. officers and 34 men,
constituting a wing headquarters and a fatigue party, who, arriving
in Fort Worth on September 26th, immediately proceeded to their
headquarters in that city. They found there were three fields located
north, south and west of Fort Worth, named, locally, Hicks, Benbrook
and Everman, but grouped under the Signal Corps title of Camp
Taliaferro, Fields Nos. 1, 2, and 3. Construction had been delayed
through various causes. Barracks and aerodromes were incomplete. At
one field building had been barely started. Water and light supply
and sewage disposal had not been finished. Thus, although every
effort was made to complete construction, it was nearly three months
before this was accomplished, entailing much delay, inconvenience and
some hardship on the squadrons occupying camps and quarters not ready
for them.

The first to arrive from Canada was the 17th Aero Squadron, U.S.S.C.,
which marched in to Hicks Field on October 17th. From that time
on one squadron arrived weekly until November 17th when the 42nd
and 43rd Wings R.F.C. and the balance of the Americans detrained,
preceded only by a few days by advanced headquarters staff.

There were now in Texas two R.F.C. Wings, the 42nd at Everman and
43rd at Benbrook, the 17th, 22nd, 27th, 28th Aero Squadrons and the
School of Aerial Gunnery at Hicks, advanced headquarters, R.F.C.,
headquarters U.S.S.C., Camp Taliaferro and the purchasing section of
the I.M.B. in Fort Worth.

Transportation arrangements for these units from Canada to Texas were
exceptionally good. The 42nd and 43rd Wings ceased flying on 14th
November and recommenced in Texas on 17th November, a loss of only
three days occasioned by a journey of approximately 1,600 miles.

It would not be amiss to mention the enormous amount of work thrown
on A.O., A.E., and Q.M. branches through the novel situation that
now existed. The U.S. owned the buildings, but the R.F.C. used and
were responsible for those they occupied. There were R.F.C. squadrons
and, beside them, American squadrons being trained by the R.F.C. but
administered by their own authorities. Aeroplanes, engines, oil,
gasoline, etc., were supplied by the U.S., but the R.F.C. directed
flying, and repaired and rebuilt machines and engines, drawing the
necessary spares from U.S. stores. The Aviation Department of the
I.M.B. transacted R.F.C. affairs as though in Canada, and with
equal facility. Cadets and men were being received continually for
training, and as continually trained and returned to their own
organizations. American railroads honoured transportation warrants
redeemable in Ottawa. The R.F.C. medical officers quarantined the
R.F.C., in which there were hundreds of Americans, against U.S. camps
a few miles away. Weekly train-loads of Canadian-made engines and
aeroplanes arrived, came under U.S. control and were immediately used
by the R.F.C.

