The situation was, in short, as though an area in Texas had been
temporarily acquired by the British Empire, and in it members of
an Imperial force conducted their affairs with the utmost freedom.
There was friction of course--for no two great military systems can
work together with all their national traditions, usages, procedures
and regulations, without many minor and some major adjustments
being necessary. It was, however, the friction of two keen and
rival organizations pressing toward the same object. Difficulties
arose only to be met and overcome by the spontaneous goodwill and
friendship of both services.

[Illustration: BENBROOK, TEXAS.]

[Illustration: A DIVE AT “HUNGRY LIZZIE.”

SALVAGE.

TEXAS CRASHES.]

[Illustration: THE LOOP.

THE LOOP.]

[Illustration: CLASS INSTRUCTION.

GUNNERY IN TEXAS.]

Before moving to Texas many American cadets had nearly finished
their training. Their first flights in their own country were
over aerodromes situated amid open territory with no timber and
comparatively flat. Excellent material these men, the best the U.S.
could supply, most of them fresh from great American universities,
young, keen and quick to learn. There were very few who did not
turn out excellent pilots. The supply of machines was satisfactory,
the standard of flying was good, and daily acrobatics took place.
Formation flying was popular. On one occasion a formation of six
machines, all piloted by newly graduated cadets, were seen to loop
several times consecutively, retaining their formation, a most
unusual performance at that time at any aerodrome in the United
States.

A summing up of the work in Texas shows a total of 67,000 flying
hours between November 17th and April 12th, spent in turning out
1,960 pilots trained and partly trained, both U.S. and R.F.C.
Besides these, 69 non-flying officers and 4,150 men were trained in
their respective duties. The flying fatalities were 1.88% of pilots
trained--an excellent record. The medical percentage is equally good,
showing 3% incapacitated from all causes.

