Flying conditions were found to differ somewhat from those in Canada.
The atmosphere was much dryer and less buoyant. Calm air was the
exception, despite the comparatively flat country. The temperature
range was much wider, and on the arrival of a “norther,” the air
became chilled with extraordinary rapidity, the thermometer dropping
from 70 to 20 degrees Fah. in a couple of hours. This sudden drop
was more trying to many than the colder but steadier temperature
of higher latitudes. Texas, though presumed a dry state, departed
this winter from its custom, and suffered heavy rainfalls and
even snow, which reduced the aerodromes at times to a drab plain
surfaced with a sticky blanket of mud, from which undercarriages and
propellers suffered grievously at times. No less than 40 propellers
were broken in one morning, and the average for one month was 10 per
day. So troublesome was the mud that finally the brigade was forced
to adopt the use of wire mesh mud guards. No provision had been
made for sub-draining any of the fields. These periods, however,
were but occasional. For the rest, the winter was one of favorable
weather with high, clear skies, dotted from daylight till dark with
innumerable machines.

Much admirable work was done by the personnel of both services, of
which perforce no record can be given. In one instance an American
squadron allotted to Hicks Field marched into new and unfinished
barracks. There was no camp equipment, no water or sewerage. The
hangars were congested with machines in packing cases, and there were
no tools, yet within eight days the packing cases had disappeared
and all machines were serviceable and ready to fly. A remarkable
performance for a unit of partially-trained men.

No account of the Texas experience would be complete without some
record of the spontaneous hospitality and goodwill shown by the
citizens of Fort Worth and the community in general. During Christmas
time, pneumonia was rampant at Camp Bowie, some six miles from
Fort Worth, where there were no less than 35,000 Texans, composing
the Panther Division. As a result the Canadians were quarantined.
This made no difference, however, to the all-hospitable Texan,
who extended to officers, cadets and mechanics so many and lavish
invitations that at the year’s end there was not a man who had not
personally experienced the goodwill of the South. The interest
created by the first arrival of the brigade in strange uniforms
and caps seemed to continue throughout the winter. No Flying Corps
man was allowed to walk, when every privately owned motor car was
at his service. Liaison duties were most admirably discharged by
the American officer who made it not only his particular duty but
pleasure to see that all newcomers were welcomed under his kindly
roof, and had every opportunity of meeting brother officers under the
most delightful circumstances.

