[Illustration: “THE ROLL”--HALF-OVER.

THE “ROLL.”]

[Illustration: CALM SKIES.]

Fort Worth citizens subscribed the sum of $75,000 to provide funds
for the local branch of the American War Service Board, and rented
a large club room and dancing hall in the centre of the city, where
comfortable accommodation was found for men of both the American
and British services. This organization was under the management of
a “Big Brother,” who seemed born to the work. Canteen and dancing
halls were supervised by an organization, the Federated Ladies’ Clubs
of Fort Worth, in which each of the latter endeavoured to excel in
hospitality, and it fell on one memorable night that the Canadians
were entertained by the daughter of the President of the United
States.

The Country Club was at the disposal of visiting officers, who
will long remember the evenings spent in the best of fellowship.
The ever-present Y.M.C.A. saw to it that commodious huts and
writing rooms were furnished in all Canadian flying camps. It is
impossible, in short, to imagine any source of pleasure, interest or
entertainment which was not provided during these notable months in
the history of the brigade.

On the evening before the departure of the R.F.C. a smoking concert
was given by U.S. officers to their comrades, an entertainment which
was eloquent of the comradeship born of strenuous times of mutual
work, and prophetic of that still closer brotherhood which would
follow in the days of active service.

The appended copy of a letter from Major-General Kenly reveals his
generous appreciation of the effort of the R.F.C. personnel:--

“WAR DEPARTMENT.
“OFFICE OF THE CHIEF SIGNAL OFFICER,
“WASHINGTON.
“May 17, 1918.
“Air Service Division
Training Section.

“FROM: Chief of Air Service.

“TO: General Officer Commanding, Royal Air Force,
Toronto, Canada.

“SUBJECT: Reciprocal Agreement.

“1. The reciprocal agreement made last autumn by yourself and the
Chief Signal Officer of the Army having successfully accomplished
its purpose, I desire to express to you my appreciation of the
manner in which the Royal Air Force, under your directions, has
fulfilled its part of the arrangement.

