“2. By its faithful and efficient work in the training of our
cadets and enlisted personnel, the Royal Air Forces has conferred
a great and practical benefit on the United States Air Service.

“3. Equally important is the imponderable but undoubted benefit
which has accrued to our men from instruction by and association
with officers and men who have had practical experience, at
the front, with the conditions which we are preparing to meet.
This contact, so desired by all our forces and so particularly
influential in the training of a wholly new arm of the service,
would, but for your assistance, have been denied to all the men
training for the Air Service in this country.

“4. The following is quoted from the report of our Commanding
Officer, Taliaferro Fields. ‘I am of the opinion that the
reciprocal agreement between the Chief Signal Officer of the
Army and the General Officer Commanding, Royal Flying Corps,
has proven an entire success, and that outside of the training
actually given at the fields here, the influence of the Royal
Flying Corps in Texas and our association with that Corps in
Canada has had a far-reaching and decidedly beneficial effect
on our flying fields, throughout the United States.’ With the
sentiment herein expressed I am in complete accord, and can wish
no better for the United States Air Service than that it may
duplicate the high endeavor and equally high accomplishment which
has distinguished the Royal Flying Corps, and now distinguishes,
in no less abundant measure, the Royal Air Force.

“W. L. KENLY,
“Major-General N.A.,
“Chief of the Air Service.”

[Illustration: PART OF FORT WORTH, TEXAS.]

[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF--ENGINE REPAIR PARK.]




ENGINE REPAIR PARK.


To the Engine Repair Park the brigade has looked for the main portion
of that mechanical work on which so much has depended, and it has not
looked in vain. The necessity for the establishment of this unit was
apparent from the first, it being put into action about the time when
flying might be said to have reached a permanent status. Some three
months later, in August, 1917, the unit was enlarged by provision for
aeroplane repair, and work of both types was done under one command.
With the rapidly increasing flying hours put in by the Corps, there
again appeared the necessity for still further enlargement, and the
unit was finally subdivided into Engine and Aeroplane Repair. This
system remained till the close of hostilities.

