It is quite obvious that the mechanical condition of the power plant
of an aeroplane is of paramount importance, and, in consequence, no
expense or trouble was spared to put the Engine Repair Park on the
best possible basis. The equipment, which in the winter of 1917,
promised to be ample, soon proved insufficient, and in September,
1918, the Park moved into large and most completely fitted shops
in rented premises on King Street. In this building four floors
presented a scene of extreme activity, the work being so arranged as
to be progressive, finishing with the final tests before shipment.
During its life of some nineteen months, this Park completely
overhauled no less than 1,325 engines, of which all but thirty-five
were of the Curtiss 8-cylinder type. Records show that for a complete
overhaul, such as was given, an average of 300 hours’ work was
required. The total strength of the unit in November, 1918, was 125.

It is of interest to note that obligations covered the complete
dissembling and assembling of engines, the repair sections, situated
at the various wings, doing only a top overhaul, for which they were
suitably equipped.

During 1918, it became apparent that considerable saving could be
effected by carrying the work of the unit into the manufacture of
engines as well as their repair, and, in consequence, much time
and thought was given to the turning out of those integral parts
which, assembled, made up the complete engine. To such a pitch was
this carried that the point was reached at which only about twenty
individual parts out of several hundred were purchased, the balance
being the product of the Repair Park itself. It is estimated that
in this way some $30,000 was saved on the manufacture of Curtiss
engines, and some $20,000 additional when this economical system was
applied to the manufacture of machine gun parts. These estimates of
saving are probably low, owing to the fact that 50c. an hour was
allowed for bench work and $1.00 an hour for machine work.

