[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF--STORES DEPOT.]




STORES DEPOT.


Stores Depot has been the general receiving, distributing and
clearing house for all supplies and equipment used by the brigade,
and it is estimated that between 20,000 and 30,000 different types of
articles and appliances have been carried in its spacious premises.

Provision of this organization was recognized as an imperative
necessity at the very inception of the Corps. Its procedure has
been from the start greatly assisted by the fact that the Aviation
Department of the Imperial Munitions Board has acted as purchasing
agent, and has always placed its unique facilities at the service of
the R.A.F. and secured for the latter the very best possible terms
and deliveries procurable. In order to reduce as far as possible the
labor imposed upon the Imperial Munitions Board, the requirements
of each unit for a definite length of time were estimated, grouped
and submitted as one request. It will be understood that these
requirements covered all needs from socks to propellers. This
procedure is termed “provisioning.”

Purchased material, being received at Stores Depot, is subject to a
minute inspection, and no payments are made by the Munitions Board
until notification has been received from the inspection department
that the articles received are in classification and quantity exactly
what has been ordered. If this centralizing of receiving work should
be considered in any way unnecessary, it has only be to pointed
out that the receipt of purchased material is thereby enormously
simplified, and the duty of inspection is unified in one specially
qualified organization.

It is easily seen that without extreme care Stores Depot might have
accumulated an enormous quantity of innumerable articles, quantities
far beyond actual requirements of the various units for whom they
were purchased. In consequence, the practice has invariably been to
compile a schedule covering the needs for six months of each branch
of the service, and confine the stocks carried to these amounts.

