The amount of work discharged by Stores Depot has been probably not
thoroughly appreciated, even by the various branches of the brigade.
Records show an average receipt per week for the last year of some
250 shipments, or between thirty or forty a day. These shipments
range from one case to seventy or eighty cases each, while from the
commencement of Stores to November, 1918, there have been placed with
the Aviation Department of the Imperial Munitions Board some 9,000
requisitions, each of which represents an average of ten different
types of articles, each requisition in turn has been covered by from
one to ten orders placed by the Munitions Board, while every order
has been covered by from one up to as high as one hundred invoices.

The responsibility of Stores Depot has involved not only receipt and
distribution of all supplies required by the brigade, but also the
maintenance of a form of record which will enable the government
auditors to trace the entire history of any article which has passed
through this organization, from the date of the order given for its
purchase up to the point at which it has reached the end of its
serviceable life and been written off.

It will, of course, be understood that supplies have been sent to the
various wings only upon a request being made by the latter, and it
is furthermore necessary that the type and amount of the equipment
which is being asked for coincide with the provision Stores Depot are
authorized to make, and the rate of consumption which is laid down as
being proper for the particular service involved. If, on the other
hand, any purchase is necessary of articles not carried as standard,
special authority is required to be granted before action is taken.

[Illustration: WINGS AND RUDDERS.

SPARES.]

[Illustration: PART OF STORES DEPOT.]

The move to Texas of a section of the Corps in October, 1917, and the
return of that section to Canada in April, 1918, threw additional
responsibility on Stores Depot organization, and shipments which
involved as many as twenty carloads per day were frequently sent out,
the total value of articles thus forwarded being over $2,000,000.
It was also of extreme importance that on the return of the Aerial
Gunnery School to its permanent quarters at Beamsville, this unit
should find itself equipped with the involved and often highly
technical scheduled supplies required for its special duty, and it
is to be recorded that this provision was admirably foreseen and
supplied.

