The number of claims for separation allowance to wives of cadets,
warrant officers and other ranks paid in February, 1917, was fifteen.
At present 1,579 claims are issued every month. Similarly the
payments to dependents have increased during the same period from 2
to 1,684. The expenditure incurred for the above services to the end
of November, 1918, is approximately $1,200,000.

[Illustration: PAY OFFICE STAFF.]

[Illustration: 90TH SQUADRON, CAMP RATHBUN.]

The total number of cadets, warrant officers, non-commissioned
officers and airmen who have been dealt with through the Department
has reached the total of 18,232.

The total expenditure by the Pay Officer on all services from
February, 1917, to December 31, 1918, has been $12,555,000.

For the reader’s further information, all units hold sub-accounts
with the Pay Officer for the payment of their personnel, each
sub-accountant rendering a monthly statement, properly vouched, to
show how the money advanced has been disposed of.

The Pay Officer’s further duties involve also the keeping of each
man’s account on a ledger sheet, showing clearly by monthly periods
the credits due and the debits made against each account. In
addition, a ledger account is kept of the amounts due and paid to
the wives and dependents of airmen. The Pay Office also assumes the
payment and examination of all railway warrants, and all rations
in kind issued to all ranks. This includes the adjustment between
the Imperial and U.S. Governments for rations and supplies issued
in Canada and Texas under the reciprocal training agreement. The
examination and payment of all accounts from civilian authorities for
damage to private property on account of crashes and breakdowns of
aircraft and mechanical transport falls to this department.

The Victory Loan of 1917, was by arrangement with the Pay Officer,
inasfar as the R.A.F. was concerned, paid for by instalments through
allotment from the men’s accounts. The total of $350,000 was
subscribed in this manner.

