As to the staff, one officer and four non-commissioned officers were
responsible for the training of an ever-increasing personnel, and
the effort was made to utilize each man’s civilian experience to the
utmost. Bank clerks and accountants who enlisted into the R.A.F.
were, upon request, usually allotted for duty with this department,
thus ensuring efficient ground work. Each was thoroughly schooled,
promotion by merit being the incentive. This practice has always
been adhered to, and has been found most satisfactory. The total of
men clerks is now 38, in charge of a flight clerk. There are but two
officers.

The female subordinates were mostly obtained from the public schools
and colleges, and, after training, their work has been as duly
recognized as that of the men. Most have been with the department
for more than twelve months. This speaks well for their work and
efficiency. The female staff numbers 41, with one lady superintendent
in charge.

It is desired in conclusion to point out that the demobilization
of the Force in Canada has seriously taxed the efforts of this
office, but, taking past experience as a guide, no trouble is being
experienced in disposing of the tremendous detail involved in
returning the corps to civil life.

[Illustration: TOP OVERHAUL.

TOP OVERHAUL.]

[Illustration: MEN’S KITCHEN--CAMP BORDEN.]

[Illustration: CADET BARRACK BLOCKS--LONG BRANCH.]

[Illustration: MECHANICAL TRANSPORT SECTION.]




MECHANICAL TRANSPORT SECTION.


This organization came into official existence on March, 17th, 1917,
with a strength of one officer, fifteen non-commissioned officers and
airmen, and some fifteen vehicles which had been brought out from
England by the advance party of the wing.

By October, 1918, the number of vehicles had grown to about 400
(exclusive of side cars) these being looked after by a staff of some
two hundred and thirty non-commissioned officers and airmen, thirty
lady drivers, and a clerical staff of thirty-six. The vehicles were
distributed throughout the various sections of the brigade, all major
sections being so organized as to make their own repairs without
reference to the central establishment in Toronto.

