Housed at first in rented premises in the Wolseley Garage, Toronto,
the headquarters establishment was moved early in August, 1917, to
its new building in Dupont Street. This structure was approximately
180 ft. × 150 ft., being laid out in bays, and so arranged as
to afford both the maximum storage space and the best possible
accommodation for repair work. The latter in turn was subdivided into
branches, each taking over its special duty as applied to various
features of repair work, thus ensuring that a car which came in for
overhaul moved constantly forward until, on completion, it had passed
through the hands of every section concerned. Arrangements were so
perfected that a complete overhaul could be completed by noon on
the third day from commencement, and three days later the vehicle,
completely painted and varnished, stood ready for either storage or
reissue.

The salvage of spare or worn parts proved, of course, to be a point
demanding special attention, inasmuch as a great portion of the
expense connected with overhaul is invariably to be found in such
replacements. Under the arrangements made, all worn parts were
classified and, wherever possible, repaired and stored so as to be
ready for re-issue when needed. It is reported by the officer in
charge of this section that the average repair output per week was
some nineteen vehicles of all descriptions, heavy and light, this
work being accomplished in addition to maintenance, washing, etc., of
all the other vehicles in the headquarters section.

The transport purchased locally proved most efficient, and in the
Toronto section 1,200-miles-run was averaged per day. Every vehicle
carried a log book, in which its duty was carefully detailed, and all
vehicles were completely rebuilt twice a year.

In October, 1918, the section, again expanding, occupied large
premises on Avenue Road, reserving the former building for repair
work only. The duties of various units of the brigade called for
transportation work of a widely varying nature, so it came that the
fleet of official vehicles presented an extreme variety, ranging
from Packard ambulances--admirable vehicles specially constructed
for hospital work at high speed over rough ground--to repair lorries
and motorcycles. Gasoline tanks for service on aerodromes proved
invaluable, and fire protection was distinctly aided by the purchase
of chemical trucks which were stationed at various units.

