The work of the section was extended to the carrying of local
mails between the various units in Toronto. This proved to be most
advantageous. No record of the section would, furthermore, be
complete without some reference to the duties performed by the lady
drivers who patriotically volunteered for this service. Their history
is one of entire success, both as to the duty performed collectively
and individually, and also having in view the all-important fact that
by the acceptance of service so finely offered the brigade was able
to release many men for other and imperative work in all sections of
its operations.

[Illustration: IN FORMATION.

A SNAPSHOT.]

[Illustration: ASSISTANT PROVOST-MARSHAL, OFFICERS AND STAFF.]




THE ASSISTANT PROVOST MARSHAL


An Assistant Provost Marshal was appointed on February 1st, 1918.
This was deemed advisable owing to the large number of men enlisted
in the Royal Air Force, Canada. It further relieved the Canadian
Military Police Corps of the extra work of supervising airmen in the
streets of Toronto.

On the formation of this office there were approximately thirty
enlisted men to carry out the duties of Royal Air Force policemen.
The number has since been increased to fifty, whose duties consist
of patrolling the streets of Toronto, and generally supervising
the discipline and movements of airmen when on leave in the city.
They have also carried out all necessary escort duties in bringing
absentees back to their units.

A city guard room was opened in April, 1918, situated at the corner
of Church and Wellington Streets, and later moved to the basement of
the Records building, at the corner of Duke and George Streets.

In July, 1918, the Royal Air Force detention rooms and police
barracks were opened at 1322 Dufferin Street, for the dual purpose of
receiving airmen sentenced to undergo detention and to accommodate
the personnel of the Assistant Provost Marshal’s staff. These
barracks are under the supervision of an officer specially detailed
for the duty.

