Since July of 1918, three men have been continually on duty in New
York City, under the direction of an officer of the Royal Air Force,
to supervise the discipline of airmen when on leave in that city.

In the above connection it will be seen that considering the many
thousands of men on the strength of the brigade, the staff of the
A.P.M. was extremely small. No better evidence could be given of the
excellent discipline and behavior of the Force.




ROYAL ENGINEERS’ SECTION.


Early in 1917 two engineer officers were appointed to the staff of
the Officer Commanding, R.F.C., Canada, for technical duty in the
selection of aerodrome sites and construction work generally. The
former occupied the initial period of their service, but with the
enlargement of the Corps came the necessity of a Royal Engineers
section to deal with affairs of maintenance and repair. It was
considered that the best results would be secured by posting
detachments of this unit to various stations, etc., to which, under
an R.E. non-commissioned officer, they were attached for discipline,
pay, rations, etc.

Under these arrangements, the R.E. section carried out its
obligations until the end of August, 1918, when on account of the
shortage of men who were both of military age and of required trades,
it was decided that the maintenance work performed up to this time by
the various subdivisions of the R.E. section, should be taken over by
the construction section of the Aviation Department of the Imperial
Munitions Board.

The method of carrying out maintenance work was thus changed, but the
responsibility for inspection and general supervision still devolved
upon the headquarters branch of the R.E. section. The strength of the
latter was reduced from an authorized establishment of 135 to a staff
of four officers, four or five draughtsmen and a sufficient number of
clerks. The duty performed by the unit still covered, as before, the
general design of all buildings whether technical, instructional or
barracks, coöperation with the construction section of the Munitions
Board in the securing of service of water, power, light, etc., and,
in general, such responsibilities as fall upon a firm of consulting
engineers. To these must be added the fact that this section was
responsible to the General Officer Commanding, and acted as
technical go-between and adviser between him and the Munitions Board
in all constructional and in many technical matters.

