[Illustration: OFFICERS AND STAFF, ROYAL ENGINEERS’ SECTION.]

[Illustration: “CHURCH UNION” AT CAMP BORDEN.]

In retrospect it appears that the arrangement worked exceedingly
well. The coöperation of the Munitions Board relieved the unit
of all except very minor construction. During the period of this
coöperation, some 400 buildings were specially erected by the former,
some 40 other existing buildings altered and fitted, together with
the provision of innumerable services of varied nature. Records show
the completion of six aerodromes with accommodation for 22 squadrons,
and the establishment of an Armament School at Hamilton and a Cadet
Wing at Long Branch. The average cost for barrack accommodation was
approximately $235 per man. In this connection it is interesting to
note that at a time when men were becoming extremely scarce owing to
the annulment of transfer from R.F.C. to the R.A.F., the employment
and accommodation of women on a fairly large scale was discussed.
Analysis of building costs showed that barrack accommodation would in
this case cost some $430 per head, owing to the necessity of special
provision. The scheme was not unnaturally abandoned.




CAMP BORDEN.


This camp, the summer home of the 44th Wing for the year 1918,
represented the first structural activities of the unit in Canada.
By most energetic methods it was transformed from a sandy desert,
and became probably the finest flying camp in North America, the
Department of Militia and Defence having put at the disposition of
the unit approximately 1,000 acres adjoining the C.E.F. camp of a
similar name. The work of construction, which began at the end of
January, 1917, progressed so fast that flying began early in April.

Never probably in the history of Canadian construction has a scene
of greater activity been presented than was observed at Borden
during this period under the direction of the late Colonel Low,
backed up by an R.E. officer lent by the Department of Militia and
Defence. Work progressed unceasingly in a temperature often 20° to
30° below zero. Buildings sprang up at night under the glare of arc
lamps, and physical difficulties one after the other were met only
to be conquered. Within two weeks 1,700 men and 200 teams had been
transported and were at work.

