The chart on page 291 shows the number of cadets passed through this
wing. It should be remembered, however, that until the formation of
the School of Aerial Gunnery in April, 1918, at Beamsville, the 44th
Wing assumed this instruction. The unit occupied Camps Leaside and
Armour Heights during the summer and winter of 1917, but for the rest
of its active history its home has been at Camp Borden.




LONG BRANCH.


At first the scene of the initial flying activity of the brigade,
i.e., that of “X” and “Y” Squadrons, Long Branch subsequently became
the home of the Cadet Wing. The area covers approximately 100 acres,
its use being kindly granted by the Department of Militia and Defence.

During the summer of 1917, cadets were housed under canvas. When
autumn came, the unit was split between camps Mohawk and Borden,
then vacated by units proceeding to Texas, and returned in April to
a larger tented city on the former ground. During the summer of 1918
it was decided that permanent accommodation be provided, this being
due to the fact that it was not contemplated that the brigade should
again visit Texas. By the autumn most excellent provision had been
made for 30 officers, 1,200 cadets, 68 warrant officers and sergeants
and 1,200 rank and file.

The camp is excellently laid out, supplied with power and light from
the transmission lines of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission, and
was complete with every provision for the instruction, comfort and
amusement of the large number of cadets on the strength.

Hospital accommodation at this unit was especially centralized, and
arrangements provided that technical instruction be given to patients
so far as their condition permitted. The Cadet Wing was always
prominent in sports, and during the summer of 1918 several racing
shells were purchased and afforded much enjoyment along the shores
of Lake Ontario, which lies immediately on the south boundary of the
camp. Here also constant interest was occasioned by the passage of
machines en route to the School of Aerial Fighting at Beamsville.

