By November, 1918, the accommodation of this unit was sufficient for
71 officers, 320 cadets, 69 warrant officers and sergeants, and 450
rank and file.

Camp Rathbun, one and a half miles north of Deseronto, was
topographically very similar to Mohawk, but comprised a lesser
acreage. During the autumn of 1918, the accommodation there was also
increased, and a central heating plant erected in order to keep all
buildings thoroughly comfortable during the winter months. There was
provision for 53 officers, 246 cadets, and 330 other ranks. Water was
chlorinated and drawn through the municipal system of the town of
Deseronto, and electrical energy secured as at Mohawk.

Both the above camps were occupied by the 43rd Wing during the summer
of 1917, and by the 42nd Wing during the summer of 1918. In the
intervening winter, Camp Mohawk afforded accommodation for one half
of the Cadet Wing held in Canada in training during that particular
period.

Wing headquarters have always been in Deseronto, and there also,
during the summer of 1918, permanent housing was erected for that
section of the occupying wing engaged in repair, motor transport and
similar work. Here too was housed the headquarters staff.

Women civilian subordinates were largely employed at Deseronto,
making their temporary homes in the town, and radiating out to the
two flying camps. In spite of apparent scanty accommodation the
arrangement worked here, as elsewhere, to the definite advantage of
the Corps.

[Illustration: R.A.F. CAN.--OUTPUT OF CADETS--42^{ND}, 43^{RD}, &
44^{TH} WINGS]

[Illustration: REPAIR SECTION--CAMP MOHAWK.]

Telephone communication connected all units, and a private wire was
secured between wing headquarters and headquarters in Toronto. The
Canadian Northern Railway immediately serves the town, and the Grand
Trunk Railway Company’s lines pass within the short distance of
seven miles, and were very frequently used. The roads in the camps’
vicinity have been considerably improved by the Corps. A noticeable
increase in the commercial life of the community has taken place
since this section of the brigade took up its residence.

