


SPORTS.


The instructions of the Air Ministry that sports should be encouraged
in all possible forms, met with the keenest approval from all members
of the Force, and as a result great advantage was secured in keeping
the physical condition of all ranks at the highest possible point.
During its first year’s history the Corps was in the throes of
organization, and with the exception of individual sports meetings
held at various stations, there was no possibility of organizing
any general system. A representative football team was, however,
formed in March of 1917, which, playing in the Ontario Provincial
League, had by the end of the season won a silver trophy known as the
Shamrock Cup, together with a gold medal for each player, and, as a
finale, journeyed to Montreal and defeated the well known Grand Trunk
Railway Team by 3 goals to 0, after a hard fought game.

Hockey presented too much of a problem to be faced during the first
winter, owing to the fact that there were not at the disposal of
the various units sufficient rinks of the required dimensions. On
the removal of part of the unit to Texas, however, the question of
sports was definitely taken up, and the general sports committee,
then appointed, arranged at once for inter-wing matches which proved
a constant source of interest and rivalry. At the end of the season,
the 42nd Wing led in soccer football, with a record of 26 goals as
against 11 secured by opponents in 5 matches. This wing won every
game it played.

It was quite natural that with such an excellent reputation, the
R.A.F. should be invited to send its representatives to play in the
North Texas Soccer Football League. Here, too, a very successful
programme was carried out. No game was lost out of five played, and,
as a result, the Spalding Trophy, presented each year to the
champion team of the League, became the property of the R.F.C. As a
token of appreciation of the services rendered by Mr. Frank Morris,
a prominent sportsman of Fort Worth, the R.F.C. sports committee
presented a shield for competition among the school teams of the Fort
Worth League.

