[Illustration: TILTING.

“THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT!”]

[Illustration: CAMP BORDEN REPRESENTATIVE TEAM.]

Sports led, in natural sequence, to entertainment, and while it
is impossible in this history to give the details of the various
concerts and entertainments provided by talent of the R.F.C., it must
in fairness be stated that these occasions brought out an astonishing
and varied amount of talent, which was keenly appreciated by
innumerable Texan friends and the unit at large. On one such occasion
nearly $1,200 remained as net profit, and on another some $800, these
two sums being divided between various funds.

On the return of this section of the Force to Canada in April, no
time was lost in opening a new and wider field of operation. A
representative R.F.C. team was enrolled in the Ontario Provincial
Football League, and inter-unit teams were also selected. A very
successful eleven was entered in the local Church and Mercantile
Cricket League, and the year 1918 saw great activity in all sports,
in spite of the difficulty in securing the necessary time and place
for training. The record of the football team showed that out of 12
games played, 7 were won, 3 lost and 2 drawn, with 33 goals scored as
against 18 by opponents.

In the final match for the championship, the R.A.F. players lost,
owing largely to sickness then prevalent.

The inter-unit football league was led at the end of the season by
the 43rd Wing.

Baseball was, for a time, followed closely, and some excellent talent
discovered, especially in the junior units, but it was found to
interfere somewhat with other games, and was therefore temporarily
suspended.

Boxing took always a prominent part in the athletics of the Corps,
and representatives included the feather-weight champion of Canada,
the middle-weight champion of America, the 115 lbs. champion of
Canada and the welter-weight champion of the West.

At Borden, aquatic sports were prominent, owing to the fact that an
admirable swimming tank had been constructed at this unit. In an
aquatic contest the plunge for distance was won, not unnaturally, by
a pearl diver from Jamaica, who plunged fifty feet.

