Cricket, although a continual source of pleasure and interest was,
so far as concerns the brigade, under a handicap, owing to lack of
practice and the impossibility of analyzing the merits of individual
players. There was discovered, however, a valuable acquisition in
an ex-Kent County colt, who was a first-rate class bowler, and was
backed up by an extremely steady sergeant-major. Both achieved many
successes during the year.

Outstanding in the history of R.A.F. sports are three events. The
first was the first annual Sports Day held on August 17th, 1918, at
the Island Stadium, Toronto. The second the joint C.E.F. and R.A.F.
Sports at Exhibition Camp on September 7th, and third the National
Championship Meet at the Great Lakes Training Centre, Chicago, from
20th to 23rd of September, 1918. The first meet, at the Island
Stadium was a great success, and will be long remembered by those who
participated. The day was perfect, the entries numerous (these of
course having been subject to prior elimination tests at the various
units) and an excellent track was available. The 456 entries received
for various events were reduced to a suitable number, and some 12,000
people filled the great tiers of benches which surround the ground.
Both in point of records made, and in the keen sportsmanlike spirit
in which the whole affair was carried out, this meet will long remain
as representative of a contest exhibiting the very best desirable
quality. A Beamsville cadet carried off the championship cup for
the greatest number of points, a remarkable athlete from Dartmouth
College. This contestant won no less than five firsts.

[Illustration: R.A.F. REPRESENTATIVE SOCCER TEAM, 1916.]

[Illustration: “WELL OVER!”

THE CHAMPION.]

The joint C.E.F. and R.A.F. meet took place on September 7th. The
latter maintained its reputation for sportsmanship, and succeeded in
winning the majority of the contests.

The last large Meet in which the brigade participated was at the
Great Lakes Training Station near Chicago. The Corps was somewhat
handicapped by having limited time for preliminary training, but,
in spite of this, captured four firsts, these being won by the same
cadet who had previously covered himself with laurels at the Island
Stadium. Such was the success of the R.A.F. on this occasion, that
special congratulations were received from the Secretary of State
through the Director of Training at the Air Ministry, London. With
the coming of winter in 1918 came also orders for demobilization
and, in consequence, the large programme of the sports committee was
perforce abandoned.

