In retrospect it appears that the athletics practised have been
of the greatest possible value, not only in the maintenance of
first-rate physical condition, but also in the fostering of all those
principles of sportsmanship and good fellowship without which a
military unit can never realize its highest character and efficiency.




ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.


It is desired to give official and universal thanks of the brigade
for the great services rendered by many organizations and individuals
during its two years’ work in Canada. From the first it was
recognized that while military training was the object of the Corps,
there were other phases of the life of the personnel that were of
primary importance. That the work of training has been successful
is due in no small degree to the fact that all ranks have benefited
both temperamentally and socially by the generous thoughtfulness so
continually extended.

No sooner had the wing been formed than the late Colonel Hamilton
Merritt and Mrs. Merritt, of Toronto, presented two training machines
as an indication of their keen interest in the progress of the flying
arm of the Imperial services. Later the City of Toronto followed this
example with three machines, Mr. James Carruthers with a similar
gift, and the Province of Ontario provided two more.

Colonel Merritt’s donation commemorated the battles of Queenston and
Lundy’s Lane, in October, 1812, and July, 1814, respectively; while
Mr. Carruthers’ machines were named after three cities in which the
donor’s interests were principally centred.

[Illustration: FIRST CANADIAN JN4 MACHINE AT LONG BRANCH.]

[Illustration: SECOND PRESENTATION MACHINE GIVEN BY THE LATE COLONEL
MERRITT.]

[Illustration: 85TH SQUADRON, CAMP MOHAWK.]

[Illustration: LONGWOOD.]

The Department of Education of the Ontario Government was most
generous in providing splendid libraries, made up of thousands of
specially selected books. These were sent, free of cost, to the
various units, and proved of the greatest possible interest and value.

