To the Young Men’s Christian Association, the Young Women’s
Christian Association, the Aero Club, originators of the Aviation
Fund, to those warm-hearted ladies under whose energy Longwood
Convalescent Home did such splendid work for the brigade, to those
who were responsible for the King Street Hostess House, and to many
others, most grateful acknowledgments are made.

To the omnipresent Y.M.C.A., the members of the brigade owe many and
sincere thanks. Animated by the admirable spirit which has always
characterized its activities, it seems to have made a special effort
to be of service particularly to the cadets and rank and file on
the strength of the Canadian Corps. At Camp Borden, the “Y” erected
a very large building, splendidly equipped for various purposes, a
building of such size as to flout the name of hut, by which it is
officially termed. At Long Branch, another was approaching completion
just as this unit demobilized. In Toronto, the “Y” doors have
invariably been thrown open to all men in uniform, and membership
accorded without any fee whatever. At the Central building on College
Street, special provision was made to meet the desires of the
soldiers in their leisure hours, and the splendid swimming pool, one
of the finest on the continent, was at the disposal of all soldiers
of the King. To such an extent was this kindness appreciated, that
members of the Royal Air Force were in the majority among those who
took advantage of these privileges.

The inner man was especially remembered, and the “Y” cafeteria proved
immensely popular. On Victoria Street was a much frequented building
for the exclusive use of men in uniform, and the Red Triangle Club
soon became the recognized meeting place for rank and file in the
city. In consequence, accommodation was constantly on the increase.
Here the dining hall service was doubly attractive, being made
possible by the voluntary labor of a number of Toronto ladies. It was
a club in every sense except one, in that membership is extended only
to those who had signified their readiness to serve their country.

