The Y.M.C.A. furnished and managed Hostess Houses at Beamsville,
Long Branch, Deseronto, Leaside and Camp Borden. This proved a
delightful variation from camp routine, and excellent light lunches
were provided at most reasonable prices, the latter being especially
enjoyed by the girls employed by the R.A.F. This organization also
secured for the summer months of 1918, a large residence on St.
George Street adjoining the School of Military Aeronautics, which
will long be remembered by countless cadets who availed themselves of
its hospitality.

The Longwood Convalescent Home, the use of which was kindly donated
by Mrs. Charles Beatty through the Canadian Aviation Aid Club, has
proved absolutely invaluable in nursing convalescents back to health
and strength. It is charmingly situated in some ten acres of grounds
about five miles north of Toronto, and being on the main road is
accessible both by motor and electric tram.

The upkeep of Longwood has always been a matter of pride and
pleasure to the Force. It was formally opened on July 30th, 1917, by
Major-General W. A. Logie, C.B., C.F.A.--since Justice Logie--who was
at that time General Officer Commanding, Military District No. 2. The
furniture, which was of a most comfortable and complete description,
including everything imaginable for the amusement of the patients,
together with all linen and men’s wear, were provided by the Aviation
Club, which body has been since its inception a continual source of
comfort and help to the brigade.

[Illustration: 84TH SQUADRON, CAMP MOHAWK.]

[Illustration: INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF, “X” SQUADRON, LONG BRANCH.

FIRST BATCH OF CADETS, “X” SQUADRON, LONG BRANCH.]

In the spring of 1918, Longwood Annex was opened, a commodious
house standing in the same grounds, and which had a capacity for an
additional 24 patients, making 48 in all; but so popular was Longwood
that, during this last summer, tents and marquees were pitched on
part of the large lawn, accommodating not less than 50 additional
patients. It will be thus seen that about 100 men at a time have
been the recipients of most thoughtful care and attention at this
Home. Its actual administration was carried out by the Canadian Army
Medical Corps through the Base Hospital, and by two excellent nursing
sisters who were continually in charge. Nothing was more satisfactory
than a visit to this delightful spot, in which, surrounded by garden
and orchard, so many healing days were passed by the men of the
Force, while above them continually soared the machines of Armour
Heights, only a short mile away.

