Recruiting for the R.F.C. was given special attention by the Club
from its inception, a committee being formed to assist in the
obtaining of cadets. The official report of this committee states
that thirty local organizations had been formed to obtain candidates
throughout Ontario, and that some 3,000 lawyers and clergymen were
circularized, as also all college and university students in the
Province. The press was used very largely to forward this work.
Six thousand application enlistment forms for R.F.C. cadets were
distributed in Ontario, and this work carried on till October 12th,
1917, when the Royal Flying Corps took over the local offices and
shouldered all its own recruiting.

All cadets of the R.F.C. are honorary members of the Aero Club
of Canada. The flying personnel of the Corps found the club and
reading rooms (established by the courtesy of the Canadian Military
Institute) most valuable in their leisure hours.

As at present constituted, the Club is affiliated with the Royal Aero
Club of London, England. Its membership is comprised, amongst others,
of some 3,000 members of the R.F.C. personnel, and it has of late
been authorized to issue international aeronautical certificates to
pilots who have qualified in training.

An irreparable loss was suffered by the death of Colonel Hamilton
Merritt, in November, 1918, whose energy, generosity and unfailing
enthusiasm had from the first been the chief factor in a most
successful history of progress.

To the Aero Club falls the credit for the inauguration of the first
Canadian aerial mail. A request was made that the Royal Air Force
undertake transportation, all other arrangements being carried out
by the Aero Club. The first mail, via the air route, left Toronto
for Montreal on June 30th, 1918. This machine, the C-203, piloted by
Capt. B. A. Peck with Corporal E. W. Mathers as passenger, arrived
at Deseronto, the first stage, in 120 minutes. The following day
Montreal was reached in 150 minutes. Leaving on the 24th on the
return journey, the pilot made Camp Leaside in six hours’ actual
flying.

