Several years later we began building these helicopteres for ourselves,
making each one larger than that preceding. But, to our astonishment, we
found that the larger the "bat" the less it flew. We did not know that a
machine having only twice the linear dimensions of another would require
eight times the power. We finally became discouraged, and returned to
kite-flying, a sport to which we had devoted so much attention that we
were regarded as experts. But as we became older we had to give up this
fascinating sport as unbecoming to boys of our ages.

It was not till the news of the sad death of Lilienthal reached America
in the summer of 1896 that we again gave more than passing attention to
the subject of flying. We then studied with great interest Chanute's
"Progress in Flying Machines," Langley's "Experiments in Aerodynamics,"
the "Aeronautical Annuals" of 1905, 1906, and 1907, and several
pamphlets published by the Smithsonian Institution, especially articles
by Lilienthal and extracts from Mouillard's "Empire of the Air." The
larger works gave us a good understanding of the nature of the flying
problem, and the difficulties in past attempts to solve it, while
Mouillard and Lilienthal, the great missionaries of the flying cause,
infected us with their own unquenchable enthusiasm, and transformed idle
curiosity into the active zeal of workers.

In the field of aviation there were two schools. The first,
represented by such men as Professor Langley and Sir Hiram Maxim,
gave chief attention to power flight; the second, represented by
Lilienthal, Mouillard, and Chanute, to soaring flight. Our sympathies
were with the latter school, partly from impatience at the wasteful
extravagance of mounting delicate and costly machinery on wings
which no one knew how to manage, and partly, no doubt, from the
extraordinary charm and enthusiasm with which the apostles of soaring
flight set forth the beauties of sailing through the air on fixed
wings, deriving the motive power from the wind itself.

