The balancing of a flyer may seem, at first thought, to be a very simple
matter, yet almost every experimenter had found in this one point which
he could not satisfactorily master. Many different methods were tried.
Some experimenters placed the center of gravity far below the wings, in
the belief that the weight would naturally seek to remain at the lowest
point. It is true, that, like the pendulum, it tended to seek the lowest
point; but also, like the pendulum, it tended to oscillate in a manner
destructive of all stability. A more satisfactory system, especially for
lateral balance, was that of arranging the wings in the shape of a broad
V, to form a dihedral angle, with the center low and the wing-tips
elevated. In theory this was an automatic system, but in practice it had
two serious defects: first, it tended to keep the machine oscillating;
and second, its usefulness was restricted to calm air.

In a slightly modified form the same system was applied to the
fore-and-aft balance. The main aeroplane was set at a positive angle,
and a horizontal tail at a negative angle, while the center of gravity
was placed far forward. As in the case of lateral control, there was a
tendency to constant undulation, and the very forces which caused a
restoration of balance in calms caused a disturbance of the balance in
winds. Notwithstanding the known limitations of this principle, it had
been embodied in almost every prominent flying machine which had been
built.

After considering the practical effect of the dihedral principle, we
reached the conclusion that a flyer founded upon it might be of interest
from a scientific point of view, but could be of no value in a practical
way. We therefore resolved to try a fundamentally different principle.
We would arrange the machine so that it would not tend to right itself.
We would make it as inert as possible to the effects of change of
direction or speed, and thus reduce the effects of wind-gusts to a
minimum. We would do this in the fore-and-aft stability by giving the
aeroplanes a peculiar shape; and in the lateral balance by arching the
surfaces from tip to tip, just the reverse of what our predecessors had
done. Then by some suitable contrivance, actuated by the operator,
forces should be brought into play to regulate the balance.

