Lilienthal and Chanute had guided and balanced their machines, by
shifting the weight of the operator's body. But this method seemed
to us incapable of expansion to meet large conditions, because the
weight to be moved and the distance of possible motion were limited,
while the disturbing forces steadily increased, both with wing area
and with wind velocity. In order to meet the needs of large machines,
we wished to employ some system whereby the operator could vary at
will the inclination of different parts of the wings, and thus obtain
from the wind forces to restore the balance which the wind itself had
disturbed. This could easily be done by using wings capable of being
warped, and by supplementary adjustable surfaces in the shape of
rudders. As the forces obtainable for control would necessarily
increase in the same ratio as the disturbing forces, the method
seemed capable of expansion to an almost unlimited extent. A
happy device was discovered whereby the apparently rigid system
of superposed surfaces, invented by Wenham, and improved by
Stringfellow and Chanute, could be warped in a most unexpected
way, so that the aeroplanes could be presented on the right and
left sides at different angles to the wind. This, with an adjustable,
horizontal front rudder, formed the main feature of our first glider.

The period from 1885 to 1900 was one of unexampled activity in
aeronautics, and for a time there was high hope that the age of flying
was at hand. But Maxim, after spending $100,000, abandoned the work;
the Ader machine, built at the expense of the French Government, was a
failure; Lilienthal and Pilcher were killed in experiments; and Chanute
and many others, from one cause or another, had relaxed their efforts,
though it subsequently became known that Professor Langley was still
secretly at work on a machine for the United States Government. The
public, discouraged by the failures and tragedies just witnessed,
considered flight beyond the reach of man, and classed its adherents
with the inventors of perpetual motion.

