We began our active experiments at the close of this period, in October,
1900, at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. Our machine was designed to be
flown as a kite, with a man on board, in winds from 15 to 20 miles an
hour. But, upon trial, it was found that much stronger winds were
required to lift it. Suitable winds not being plentiful, we found it
necessary, in order to test the new balancing system, to fly the machine
as a kite without a man on board, operating the levers through cords
from the ground. This did not give the practice anticipated, but it
inspired confidence in the new system of balance.

In the summer of 1901 we became personally acquainted with Mr. Chanute.
When he learned that we were interested in flying as a sport, and not
with any expectation of recovering the money we were expending on it, he
gave us much encouragement. At our invitation, he spent several weeks
with us at our camp at Kill Devil Hill, four miles south of Kitty Hawk,
during our experiments of that and the two succeeding years. He also
witnessed one flight of the power machine near Dayton, Ohio, in October,
1904.

The machine of 1901 was built with the shape of surface used by
Lilienthal, curved from front to rear like the segment of a parabola,
with a curvature 1/12 the depth of its cord; but to make doubly sure
that it would have sufficient lifting capacity when flown as a kite in
15 or 20-mile winds, we increased the area from 165 square feet, used in
1900, to 308 square feet--a size much larger than Lilienthal, Pilcher,
or Chanute had deemed safe. Upon trial, however, the lifting capacity
again fell very far short of calculation, so that the idea of securing
practice while flying as a kite had to be abandoned. Mr. Chanute, who
witnessed the experiments, told us that the trouble was not due to poor
construction of the machine. We saw only one other explanation--that the
tables of air-pressures in general use were incorrect.

[Illustration]

We then turned to gliding--coasting downhill on the air--as the only
method of getting the desired practice in balancing a machine. After
a few minutes' practice we were able to make glides of over 300 feet,
and in a few days were safely operating in 27-mile winds. In these
experiments we met with several unexpected phenomena. We found that,
contrary to the teachings of the books, the center of pressure on a
curved surface traveled backward when the surface was inclined, at small
angles, more and more edgewise to the wind. We also discovered that in
free flight, when the wing on one side of the machine was presented to
the wind at a greater angle than the one on the other side, the wing
with the greater angle descended, and the machine turned in a direction
just the reverse of what we were led to expect when flying the machine
as a kite. The larger angle gave more resistance to forward motion, and
reduced the speed of the wing on that side. The decrease in speed more
than counterbalanced the effect of the larger angle. The addition of a
fixed vertical vane in the rear increased the trouble, and made the
machine absolutely dangerous. It was some time before a remedy was
discovered. This consisted of movable rudders working in conjunction
with the twisting of the wings. The details of this arrangement are
given in specifications published several years ago.

