The experiments of 1901 were far from encouraging. Although Mr. Chanute
assured us that, both in control and in weight carried per horse-power,
the results obtained were better than those of any of our predecessors,
yet we saw that the calculations upon which all flying machines had been
based were unreliable, and that all were simply groping in the dark.
Having set out with absolute faith in the existing scientific data, we
were driven to doubt one thing after another, till finally, after two
years of experiment, we cast it all aside, and decided to rely entirely
upon our own investigations. Truth and error were everywhere so
intimately mixed as to be undistinguishable. Nevertheless, the time
expended in preliminary study of books was not misspent, for they gave
us a good general understanding of the subject, and enabled us at the
outset to avoid effort in many directions in which results would have
been hopeless.

The standard measurements of wind-pressures is the force produced by a
current of air of one mile per hour velocity striking square against a
plane of one square foot area. The practical difficulties of obtaining
an exact measurement of this force have been great. The measurements by
different recognized authorities vary 50 per cent. When this simplest of
measurements presents so great difficulties, what shall be said of the
troubles encountered by those who attempt to find the pressure at each
angle as the plane is inclined more and more edgewise to the wind? In
the eighteenth century the French Academy prepared tables giving such
information, and at a later date the Aeronautical Society of Great
Britain made similar experiments. Many persons likewise published
measurements and formulas; but the results were so discordant that
Professor Langley undertook a new series of measurements, the results
of which form the basis of his celebrated work, "Experiments in
Aerodynamics." Yet a critical examination of the data upon which he
based his conclusions as to the pressures at small angles shows
results so various as to make many of his conclusions little better
than guesswork.

