After the last flight the machine was carried back to camp and set down
in what was thought to be a safe place. But a few minutes later, while
we were engaged in conversation about the flights, a sudden gust of wind
struck the machine, and started to turn it over. All made a rush to stop
it, but we were too late. Mr. Daniels, a giant in stature and strength,
was lifted off his feet, and falling inside, between the surfaces, was
shaken about like a rattle in a box as the machine rolled over and over.
He finally fell out upon the sand with nothing worse than painful
bruises, but the damage to the machine caused a discontinuance of
experiments.

In the spring of 1904, through the kindness of Mr. Torrence Huffman, of
Dayton, Ohio, we were permitted to erect a shed, and to continue
experiments, on what is known as the Huffman Prairie, at Simms Station,
eight miles east of Dayton. The new machine was heavier and stronger,
but similar to the one flown at Kill Devil Hill. When it was ready for
its first trial every newspaper in Dayton was notified, and about a
dozen representatives of the Press were present. Our only request was
that no pictures be taken, and that the reports be unsensational, so as
not to attract crowds to our experiment grounds. There were probably 50
persons altogether on the ground. When preparations had been completed a
wind of only three or four miles was blowing--insufficient for starting
on so short a track--but since many had come a long way to see the
machine in action, an attempt was made. To add to the other difficulty,
the engine refused to work properly. The machine, after running the
length of the track, slid off the end without rising into the air at
all. Several of the newspaper men returned the next day, but were again
disappointed. The engine performed badly, and after a glide of only 60
feet, the machine came to the ground. Further trial was postponed till
the motor could be put in better running condition. The reporters had
now, no doubt, lost confidence in the machine, though their reports, in
kindness, concealed it. Later, when they heard that we were making
flights of several minutes' duration, knowing that longer flights had
been made with airships, and not knowing any essential difference
between airships and flying machines, they were but little interested.

