In order to show the general reader the way in which the machine
operates, let us fancy ourselves ready for the start. The machine is
placed upon a single-rail track facing the wind, and is securely
fastened with a cable. The engine is put in motion, and the propellers
in the rear whir. You take your seat at the center of the machine beside
the operator. He slips the cable, and you shoot forward. An assistant
who has been holding the machine in balance on the rail starts forward
with you, but before you have gone 50 feet the speed is too great for
him, and he lets go. Before reaching the end of the track the operator
moves the front rudder, and the machine lifts from the rail like a kite
supported by the pressure of the air underneath it. The ground under you
is at first a perfect blur, but as you rise the objects become clearer.
At a height of 100 feet you feel hardly any motion at all, except for
the wind which strikes your face. If you did not take the precaution to
fasten your hat before starting, you have probably lost it by this
time. The operator moves a lever: the right wing rises, and the machine
swings about to the left. You make a very short turn, yet you do not
feel the sensation of being thrown from your seat, so often experienced
in automobile and railway travel. You find yourself facing toward the
point from which you started. The objects on the ground now seem to be
moving at much higher speed, though you perceive no change in the
pressure of the wind on your face. You know then that you are traveling
with the wind. When you near the starting-point the operator stops the
motor while still high in the air. The machine coasts down at an oblique
angle to the ground, and after sliding 50 or 100 feet, comes to rest.
Although the machine often lands when traveling at a speed of a mile a
minute, you feel no shock whatever, and cannot, in fact, tell the exact
moment at which it first touched the ground. The motor close beside you
kept up an almost deafening roar during the whole flight, yet in your
excitement you did not notice it till it stopped!

