Our experiments have been conducted entirely at our own expense. In the
beginning we had no thought of recovering what we were expending, which
was not great, and was limited to what we could afford in recreation.
Later, when a successful flight had been made with a motor, we gave up
the business in which we were engaged, to devote our entire time and
capital to the development of a machine for practical uses. As soon as
our condition is such that constant attention to business is not
required, we expect to prepare for publication the results of our
laboratory experiments, which alone made an early solution of the flying
problem possible.




How We Made the First Flight

_By Orville Wright_


The flights of the 1902 glider had demonstrated the efficiency of our
system of maintaining equilibrium, and also the accuracy of the
laboratory work upon which the design of the glider was based. We then
felt that we were prepared to calculate in advance the performance of
machines with a degree of accuracy that had never been possible with the
data and tables possessed by our predecessors. Before leaving camp in
1902 we were already at work on the general design of a new machine
which we proposed to propel with a motor.

Immediately upon our return to Dayton, we wrote to a number of
automobile and motor builders, stating the purpose for which we desired
a motor, and asking whether they could furnish one that would develop
eight brake-horsepower, with a weight complete not exceeding 200 pounds.
Most of the companies answered that they were too busy with their
regular business to undertake the building of such a motor for us; but
one company replied that they had motors rated at 8 horse-power,
according to the French system of ratings, which weighed only 135
pounds, and that if we thought this motor would develop enough power for
our purpose they would be glad to sell us one. After an examination of
the particulars of this motor, from which we learned that it had but a
single cylinder of 4-inch bore and 5-inch stroke, we were afraid it was
much over-rated. Unless the motor would develop a full 8
brake-horsepower, it would be useless for our purpose.

