Finally we decided to undertake the building of the motor ourselves. We
estimated that we could make one of four cylinders with 4-inch bore and
4-inch stroke, weighing not over two hundred pounds, including all
accessories. Our only experience up to that time in the building of
gasoline motors had been in the construction of an air-cooled motor,
5-inch bore and 7-inch stroke, which was used to run the machinery of
our small workshop. To be certain that four cylinders of the size we had
adopted (4" x 4") would develop the necessary 8 horse-power, we first
fitted them in a temporary frame of simple and cheap construction. In
just six weeks from the time the design was started, we had the motor on
the block testing its power. The ability to do this so quickly was
largely due to the enthusiastic and efficient services of Mr. C. E.
Taylor, who did all the machine work in our shop for the first as well
as the succeeding experimental machines. There was no provision for
lubricating either cylinders or bearings while this motor was running.
For that reason it was not possible to run it more than a minute or two
at a time. In these short tests the motor developed about nine
horse-power. We were then satisfied that, with proper lubrication and
better adjustments, a little more power could be expected. The
completion of the motor according to drawing was, therefore, proceeded
with at once.

[Illustration]

While Mr. Taylor was engaged with this work, Wilbur and I were busy in
completing the design of the machine itself. The preliminary tests of
the motor having convinced us that more than 8 horse-power would be
secured, we felt free to add enough weight to build a more substantial
machine than we had originally contemplated.

*       *       *       *       *

For two reasons we decided to use two propellers. In the first place we
could, by the use of two propellers, secure a reaction against a greater
quantity of air, and at the same time use a larger pitch angle than was
possible with one propeller; and in the second place by having the
propellers turn in opposite directions, the gyroscopic action of one
would neutralize that of the other. The method we adopted of driving the
propellers in opposite directions by means of chains is now too well
known to need description here. We decided to place the motor to one
side of the man, so that in case of a plunge headfirst, the motor could
not fall upon him. In our gliding experiments we had had a number of
experiences in which we had landed upon one wing, but the crushing of
the wing had absorbed the shock, so that we were not uneasy about the
motor in case of a landing of that kind. To provide against the machine
rolling over forward in landing, we designed skids like sled runners,
extending out in front of the main surfaces. Otherwise the general
construction and operation of the machine was to be similar to that of
the 1902 glider.

