When the motor was completed and tested, we found that it would develop
16 horse-power for a few seconds, but that the power rapidly dropped
till, at the end of a minute, it was only 12 horse-power. Ignorant of
what a motor of this size ought to develop, we were greatly pleased with
its performance. More experience showed us that we did not get one-half
of the power we should have had.

With 12 horse-power at our command, we considered that we could permit
the weight of the machine with operator to rise to 750 or 800 pounds,
and still have as much surplus power as we had originally allowed for in
the first estimate of 550 pounds.

Before leaving for our camp at Kitty Hawk we tested the chain drive for
the propellers in our shop at Dayton, and found it satisfactory. We
found, however, that our first propeller shafts, which were constructed
of heavy gauge steel tubing, were not strong enough to stand the shocks
received from a gasoline motor with light fly wheel, although they would
have been able to transmit three or four times the power uniformly
applied. We therefore built a new set of shafts of heavier tubing, which
we tested and thought to be abundantly strong.

We left Dayton, September 23, and arrived at our camp at Kill Devil Hill
on Friday, the 25th. We found there provisions and tools, which had been
shipped by freight several weeks in advance. The building, erected in
1901 and enlarged in 1902, was found to have been blown by a storm from
its foundation posts a few months previously. While we were awaiting the
arrival of the shipment of machinery and parts from Dayton, we were busy
putting the old building in repair, and erecting a new building to serve
as a workshop for assembling and housing the new machine.

Just as the building was being completed, the parts and material for the
machines arrived simultaneously with one of the worst storms that had
visited Kitty Hawk in years. The storm came on suddenly, blowing 30 to
40 miles an hour. It increased during the night, and the next day was
blowing over 75 miles an hour. In order to save the tar-paper roof, we
decided it would be necessary to get out in this wind and nail down more
securely certain parts that were especially exposed. When I ascended the
ladder and reached the edge of the roof, the wind caught under my large
coat, blew it up around my head and bound my arms till I was perfectly
helpless. Wilbur came to my assistance and held down my coat while I
tried to drive the nails. But the wind was so strong I could not guide
the hammer and succeeded in striking my fingers as often as the nails.

