While in the bicycle business we had become well acquainted with the use
of hard tire cement for fastening tires on the rims. We had once used it
successfully in repairing a stop watch after several watchsmiths had
told us it could not be repaired. If tire cement was good for fastening
the hands on a stop watch, why should it not be good for fastening the
sprockets on the propeller shaft of a flying machine? We decided to try
it. We heated the shafts and sprockets, melted cement into the threads,
and screwed them together again. This trouble was over. The sprockets
stayed fast.

Just as the machine was ready for test bad weather set in. It had been
disagreeably cold for several weeks, so cold that we could scarcely work
on the machine for some days. But now we began to have rain and snow,
and a wind of 25 to 30 miles blew for several days from the north. While
we were being delayed by the weather we arranged a mechanism to measure
automatically the duration of a flight from the time the machine started
to move forward to the time it stopped, the distance traveled through
the air in that time, and the number of revolutions made by the motor
and propeller. A stop watch took the time; an anemometer measured the
air traveled through; and a counter took the number of revolutions made
by the propellers. The watch, anemometer and revolution counter were all
automatically started and stopped simultaneously. From data thus
obtained we expected to prove or disprove the accuracy of our propeller
calculations.

On November 28, while giving the motor a run indoors, we thought we
again saw something wrong with one of the propeller shafts. On stopping
the motor we discovered that one of the tubular shafts had cracked!

[Illustration]

Immediate preparation was made for returning to Dayton to build another
set of shafts. We decided to abandon the use of tubes, as they did not
afford enough spring to take up the shocks of premature or missed
explosions of the motor. Solid tool-steel shafts of smaller diameter
than the tubes previously used were decided upon. These would allow a
certain amount of spring. The tubular shafts were many times stronger
than would have been necessary to transmit the power of our motor if the
strains upon them had been uniform. But the large hollow shafts had no
spring in them to absorb the unequal strains.

