Wilbur remained in camp while I went to get the new shafts. I did not
get back to camp again till Friday, the 11th of December. Saturday
afternoon the machine was again ready for trial, but the wind was so
light a start could not have been made from level ground with the run of
only sixty feet permitted by our monorail track. Nor was there enough
time before dark to take the machine to one of the hills, where, by
placing the track on a steep incline, sufficient speed could be secured
for starting in calm air.

Monday, December 14, was a beautiful day, but there was not enough wind
to enable a start to be made from the level ground about camp. We
therefore decided to attempt a flight from the side of the big Kill
Devil Hill. We had arranged with the members of the Kill Devil Hill Life
Saving Station, which was located a little over a mile from our camp, to
inform them when we were ready to make the first trial of the machine.
We were soon joined by J. T. Daniels, Robert Westcott, Thomas Beachem,
W. S. Dough and Uncle Benny O'Neal, of the station, who helped us get
the machine to the hill, a quarter mile away. We laid the track 150 feet
up the side of the hill on a 9-degree slope. With the slope of the
track, the thrust of the propellers and the machine starting directly
into the wind, we did not anticipate any trouble in getting up flying
speed on the 60-foot monorail track. But we did not feel certain the
operator could keep the machine balanced on the track.

When the machine had been fastened with a wire to the track, so that it
could not start until released by the operator, and the motor had been
run to make sure that it was in condition, we tossed up a coin to decide
who should have the first trial. Wilbur won. I took a position at one of
the wings, intending to help balance the machine as it ran down the
track. But when the restraining wire was slipped, the machine started
off so quickly I could stay with it only a few feet. After a 35 to
40-foot run it lifted from the rail. But it was allowed to turn up too
much. It climbed a few feet, stalled, and then settled to the ground
near the foot of the hill, 105 feet below. My stop watch showed that it
had been in the air just 3-1/2 seconds. In landing the left wing touched
first. The machine swung around, dug the skids into the sand and broke
one of them. Several other parts were also broken, but the damage to the
machine was not serious. While the test had shown nothing as to whether
the power of the motor was sufficient to keep the machine up, since the
landing was made many feet below the starting point, the experiment had
demonstrated that the method adopted for launching the machine was a
safe and practical one. On the whole, we were much pleased.

