Two days were consumed in making repairs, and the machine was not ready
again till late in the afternoon of the 16th. While we had it out on the
track in front of the building, making the final adjustments, a stranger
came along. After looking at the machine a few seconds he inquired what
it was. When we told him it was a flying machine he asked whether we
intended to fly it. We said we did, as soon as we had a suitable wind.
He looked at it several minutes longer and then, wishing to be
courteous, remarked that it looked as if it would fly, if it had a
"suitable wind." We were much amused, for, no doubt, he had in mind the
recent 75-mile gale when he repeated our words, "a suitable wind!"

During the night of December 16, 1903, a strong cold wind blew from the
north. When we arose on the morning of the 17th, the puddles of water,
which had been standing about camp since the recent rains, were covered
with ice. The wind had a velocity of 10 to 12 meters per second (22 to
27 miles an hour). We thought it would die down before long, and so
remained indoors the early part of the morning. But when ten o'clock
arrived, and the wind was as brisk as ever, we decided that we had
better get the machine out and attempt a flight. We hung out the signal
for the men of the life saving station. We thought that by facing the
flyer into a strong wind, there ought to be no trouble in launching it
from the level ground about camp. We realized the difficulties of flying
in so high a wind, but estimated that the added dangers in flight would
be partly compensated for by the slower speed in landing.

We laid the track on a smooth stretch of ground about one hundred feet
north of the new building. The biting cold wind made work difficult, and
we had to warm up frequently in our living room, where we had a good
fire in an improvised stove made of a large carbide can. By the time all
was ready, J. T. Daniels, W. S. Dough and A. D. Etheridge, members of
the Kill Devil Life Saving Station; W. C. Brinkley, of Manteo, and
Johnny Moore, a boy from Nag's Head, had arrived.

