We had a "Richards" hand anemometer with which we measured the velocity
of the wind. Measurements made just before starting the first flight
showed velocities of 11 to 12 meters per second, or 24 to 27 miles per
hour. Measurements made just before the last flight gave between 9 and
10 meters per second. One made just after showed a little over 8 meters.
The records of the Government Weather Bureau at Kitty Hawk gave the
velocity of the wind between the hours of 10:30 and 12 o'clock, the time
during which the four flights were made, as averaging 27 miles at the
time of the first flight and 24 miles at the time of the last.

*       *       *       *       *

Wilbur, having used his turn in the unsuccessful attempt on the 14th,
the right to the first trial now belonged to me. After running the motor
a few minutes to heat it up, I released the wire that held the machine
to the track, and the machine started forward into the wind. Wilbur ran
at the side of the machine, holding the wing to balance it on the track.
Unlike the start on the 14th, made in a calm, the machine, facing a
27-mile wind, started very slowly. Wilbur was able to stay with it till
it lifted from the track after a forty-foot run. One of the life saving
men snapped the camera for us, taking a picture just as the machine had
reached the end of the track and had risen to a height of about two
feet. The slow forward speed of the machine over the ground is clearly
shown in the picture by Wilbur's attitude. He stayed along beside the
machine without any effort.

The course of the flight up and down was exceedingly erratic, partly due
to the irregularity of the air, and partly to lack of experience in
handling this machine. The control of the front rudder was difficult on
account of its being balanced too near the center. This gave it a
tendency to turn itself when started; so that it turned too far on one
side and then too far on the other. As a result the machine would rise
suddenly to about ten feet, and then as suddenly dart for the ground. A
sudden dart when a little over a hundred feet from the end of the track,
or a little over 120 feet from the point at which it rose into the air,
ended the flight. As the velocity of the wind was over 35 feet per
second and the speed of the machine against this wind ten feet per
second, the speed of the machine relative to the air was over 45 feet
per second, and the length of the flight was equivalent to a flight of
540 feet made in calm air. This flight lasted only 12 seconds, but it
was nevertheless the first in the history of the world in which a
machine carrying a man had raised itself by its own power into the air
in full flight, had sailed forward without reduction of speed, and had
finally landed at a point as high as that from which it started.

