*       *       *       *       *

My own active interest in aeronautical problems dates back to the death
of Lilienthal in 1896. The brief notice of his death which appeared in
the telegraphic news at that time aroused a passive interest which had
existed from my childhood, and led me to take down from the shelves of
our home library a book on "Animal Mechanism," by Prof. Marey, which I
had already read several times. From this I was led to read more modern
works, and as my brother soon became equally interested with myself, we
soon passed from the reading to the thinking, and finally to the working
stage. It seemed to us that the main reason why the problem had remained
so long unsolved was that no one had been able to obtain any adequate
practice. We figured that Lilienthal in five years of time had spent
only about five hours in actual gliding through the air. The wonder was
not that he had done so little, but that he had accomplished so much. It
would not be considered at all safe for a bicycle rider to attempt to
ride through a crowded city street after only five hours' practice,
spread out in bits of ten seconds each over a period of five years; yet
Lilienthal with this brief practice was remarkably successful in meeting
the fluctuations and eddies of wind gusts. We thought that if some
method could be found by which it would be possible to practice by the
hour instead of by the second there would be hope of advancing the
solution of a very difficult problem. It seemed feasible to do this by
building a machine which would be sustained at a speed of 18 miles per
hour, and then finding a locality where winds of this velocity were
common. With these conditions a rope attached to the machine to keep it
from floating backward would answer very nearly the same purpose as a
propeller driven by a motor, and it would be possible to practice by the
hour, and without any serious danger, as it would not be necessary to
rise far from the ground, and the machine would not have any forward
motion at all. We found, according to the accepted tables of air
pressures on curved surfaces, that a machine spreading 200 square feet
of wing surface would be sufficient for our purpose, and that places
could easily be found along the Atlantic coast where winds of 16 to 25
miles were not at all uncommon. When the winds were low it was our plan
to glide from the tops of sand hills, and when they were sufficiently
strong to use a rope for our motor and fly over one spot. Our next work
was to draw up the plan for a suitable machine. After much study we
finally concluded that tails were a source of trouble rather than of
assistance, and therefore we decided to dispense with them altogether.
It seemed reasonable that if the body of the operator could be placed in
a horizontal position instead of the upright, as in the machines of
Lilienthal, Pilcher and Chanute, the wind resistance could be very
materially reduced, since only one square foot instead of five would be
exposed. As a full half-horse-power could be saved by this change, we
arranged to try at least the horizontal position. Then the method of
control used by Lilienthal, which consisted in shifting the body, did
not seem quite as quick or effective as the case required; so, after
long study, we contrived a system consisting of two large surfaces on
the Chanute double-deck plan, and a smaller surface placed a short
distance in front of the main surfaces in such a position that the
action of the wind upon it would counterbalance the effect of the travel
of the center of pressure on the main surfaces. Thus changes in the
direction and velocity of the wind would have little disturbing effect,
and the operator would be required to attend only to the steering of the
machine, which was to be effected by curving the forward surface up or
down. The lateral equilibrium and the steering to right or left was to
be attained by a peculiar torsion of the main surfaces, which was
equivalent to presenting one end of the wings at a greater angle than
the other. In the main frame a few changes were also made in the details
of construction and trussing employed by Mr. Chanute. The most important
of these were: (1) The moving of the forward main cross-piece of the
frame to the extreme front edge; (2) the encasing in the cloth of all
cross-pieces and ribs of the surfaces; (3) a rearrangement of the wires
used in trussing the two surfaces together, which rendered it possible
to tighten all the wires by simply shortening two of them.

