When the time came to design our new machine for 1901 we decided to make
it exactly like the previous machine in theory and method of operation.
But as the former machine was not able to support the weight of the
operator when flown as a kite, except in very high winds and at very
large angles of incidence, we decided to increase its lifting power.
Accordingly, the curvature of the surfaces was increased to one in 12,
to conform to the shape on which Lilienthal's table was based, and to be
on the safe side we decided also to increase the area of the machine
from 165 square feet to 308 square feet, although so large a machine had
never before been deemed controllable. The Lilienthal machine had an
area of 151 square feet; that of Pilcher, 165 square feet; and the
Chanute double-decker, 134 square feet. As our system of control
consisted in a manipulation of the surfaces themselves instead of
shifting the operator's body, we hoped that the new machine would be
controllable, notwithstanding its great size. According to calculations,
it would obtain support in a wind of 17 miles per hour with an angle of
incidence of only three degrees.

[Illustration]

Our experience of the previous year having shown the necessity of a
suitable building for housing the machine, we erected a cheap frame
building, 16 feet wide, 25 feet long, and 7 feet high at the eaves. As
our machine was 22 feet wide, 14 feet long (including the rudder), and
about 6 feet high, it was not necessary to take the machine apart in any
way in order to house it. Both ends of the building, except the gable
parts, were made into doors which hinged above, so that when opened they
formed an awning at each end and left an entrance the full width of the
building. We went into camp about the middle of July, and were soon
joined by Mr. E. C. Huffaker, of Tennessee, an experienced aeronautical
investigator in the employ of Mr. Chanute, by whom his services were
kindly loaned, and by Dr. A. G. Spratt, of Pennsylvania, a young man who
has made some valuable investigations of the properties of variously
curved surfaces and the travel of the center of pressure thereon. Early
in August Mr. Chanute came down from Chicago to witness our experiments,
and spent a week in camp with us. These gentlemen, with my brother and
myself, formed our camping party, but in addition we had in many of our
experiments the valuable assistance of Mr. W. J. Tate and Mr. Dan Tate,
of Kitty Hawk.

